[Music]
well welcome to another episode of
conversations with Tom I am here with
Todd Herman Tom it's the dawn of time
it's the Tom and Todd show today it is
it is indeed welcome man yeah great to
be here finally I'm super excited to
have you it should be a lot of fun
you've got a very interesting concept
and I wanted just before we started
rolling you were talking about New York
is where you ended up from Canada very
surprised by that yeah that's because
it's the epicenter of ambition yeah so
what was it about ambition and and what
do you like about the realities of New
York that there is this phenomenal
pursuit that's always happening there
like you don't come to New York to live
a quality of life that's interesting
what do you mean by that well you're not
there because it's easy because New York
isn't easy you're there because you're
you're pursuing something like there's
so many industries that that's the place
where you go whether it's fashion or
whether it's media or whether it's
finance or you know insert the name of
like eleven others really you really
onto something interesting though that I
am I'm not sure how the world comes down
in this and I think I may have a weird
view on this so you're saying that they
don't go there for quality of life for
me I'm assuming what you mean is like a
work-life balance ya know like what I
mean is like you're there like people
it's you meet so many interesting people
that have got big dreams big pursuits
whether they're gonna make it or not
that's that's not the argument but you
meet people who have chosen to go to a
place where I mean quality of life in
that you're not living in a 2,000 square
foot apartment that you're paying 1,500
month for okay there I mean I had
friends were five six of them were
living inside of a one-bedroom apartment
right and but they were all pursuing the
dream of living in New York City even
like that you think there's something
I've often referred to my own drive as a
sickness now I say it as a sickness like
Batman has a sickness yeah so to me even
that's kind of cool yeah the sexiness to
that yeah we're gonna jump into that
deep with disgust
that's true with the whole notion of an
alter ego that you're great for yourself
absolutely so is when when I think about
New York when I think about ambition
when I think about people going
somewhere and giving up what some people
may call a quality of life for me that
is the juice that is the quality like
seeing all in yeah so my context of the
colder life that I was just talking
about was like the sort of accepted one
in suburbia right that you know you live
in a hermetically sealed home with a
two-car garage and then you get inside
of your medically sealed vehicle and you
drive 35 or minutes to an hour to
hermetically seal the office and like
that's very much what people's
existences are you don't have that in in
New York like it's a little bit grimy
it's a little bit dirty and and I love
the dirt under your fingernails and and
that's why for me this is what you and
this is what you're hunting for in your
conversations in your stories is you
like hey I love all the gloss I love all
the kind of like you know zenith rising
story and the the hero coming out of the
journey but I want to get into the cave
part like tell me about the dark part
and I mean that's where I've lived for
22 years working with ambitious whether
it's athletes leaders executives
entertainers is shepherding them through
the really challenging parts of making
change happen for themselves so that's
interesting I I wouldn't have paraphrase
what you do is making change happen yeah
and I think that where people have a
really really hard time with change so
what is that sort of dark night of the
soul what's the cave about where do you
people struggle with change well I mean
if there's a force that we just give a
name to it's resistance whatever and
resistance can come in so many forms
whether it's just you know the cavalier
term of fear but you know what sits
behind it sometimes it's the narrative
that we've got about ourselves in our
story that we've really attached
ourselves to and we've used it as a way
to define ourselves and then we've
locked ourselves into a cage of limits
saying that I can't go and do that
because no one from my small town has
gone and done that kind of thing do
people hit you up a lot with the there's
someone I love I love them so much and
they they tell me they want to change
and they ask for it
but then they don't do anything do I get
that a lot and I've certainly lived that
a lot that's probably one of the most
frequent questions I get if I'm doing a
QA yeah it's either my significant other
my parents my children whatever I've
introduced them to a growth mindset yet
they reject it they don't go for it but
I know they're unhappy yeah
do you like my immediate response to
that is you're not gonna be able to
change them love them where they're at
and you just sit with them is usually
what I say just sit with them don't try
to change them just sit with them yeah
do you have better advice because lord
knows I would love to be like say these
six words it will change them forever
yeah that's always what I'm hoping for
yeah so no I mean the advice is gonna
fall into the same line I mean people
need to find the place where they need
to they need to change like you can't do
it for them very bad news
yeah no it's it but it's it's it's the
reality of it all so what the one thing
I'll say is that we need to be really
careful with the language that we use
the choices of our words and what have
become just common vernacular that we
use in our vocabulary are the things
that people don't realize are actually
trapping them you know we as human
beings we've got this phenomenal gift of
language language is what we use to
create our worlds right there's a great
TED talk where this researcher who
studies language was looking at okay so
you know in some cultures they don't
have the word spend okay okay so if they
don't have the word spend like we do in
our you know Western you know English
culture does that change their financial
existence so German culture for example
doesn't really have a word for spending
like getting money and then spending it
like thinking and so what does that
change well Germans have a higher rate
of savings and financial wherewithal
than english-speaking cultures there are
tribes in Africa along the same lines
where this tribe right here doesn't have
a word for the terms doesn't have a word
spend but this tribe over here does
and so this one has a higher level of
prosperity because of that it's really
interesting so I read one time and I
have no idea if this is true but it hit
me is intuitively true yeah that there
is a shade of blue that we have lost
because there's no word for in the
English language and when there's no
word for it your mind can't conceive of
it and so it shoves it into another
category yeah and thusly you become
effectively blind like even though
you're seeing it you don't perceive it
as being different
it's a scotoma yes scotoma scotoma is a
blind spot you can't see it it's like
when your word come from it's good
where's it come from
yeah scotoma comes from I don't know
exactly if it's coming from the medical
side but the psychology is it a hematoma
like is it the same Toma in this no no
because that's a hematoma is a physical
manifestation like it's a it's a it's a
thing that you hold scotoma in this
sense isn't more the psychological kind
of the ethereal right you know in a
scotoma as an example would be you know
when you're walking around and you're
saying I can't find my keys anywhere
okay
but to play this out imagine that
they're in your pocket or they're in
your hand and you're going freakin lost
my keys I can't find them anywhere so
what your mind does because you're one
of your your brain's responsibilities is
to protect you from looking like an
idiot to yourself so it has to actually
it's because it's teleological it's goal
seeking so if you're telling yourself
something it needs to help prove it in
your physical world so when you tell
yourself that you can't find your keys
anywhere the mind's processes go as well
actually your keys are in your hand but
I can't make you look like an idiot to
yourself because I got to protect the
identity that had protect the self so
I'm gonna deaden the nerve endings in
your hand plus in your in your cones and
rods because we don't see with our
somebody studied this it sounds crazy
represent yeah yeah it's in tons of
psychological texts how do they test
whether it's deadening the nerves or not
a great question don't have that data
for you
man I'd be so interested yeah read those
studies that's so weird
so it definitely ties into the notions
of the psychological immune system and
how it's going to come to your aid and
protect you from feeling stupid but Wow
yeah I've never heard that
aid in that way well in its kind of I
mean trying to tie back to like the idea
that we've lost this shade of blue it's
just the language that we use with
ourselves just causes us to see blind
spots in the world like despite the fact
that something's right in front of you
like the opportunity is right there but
if you're if you're telling yourself a
narrative that it's not there then you
can't see it you just can't see it right
right it's like when you've you know
we've all had that situation where the
moment we've sort of fallen off the
cliff out of love with you know a
girlfriend or a boyfriend at the time
and then all we see is their faults and
it's just annoying us despite the fact
that 80% of the time they're doing
amazing things for us even but you can't
see it that's why to get to your other
point that you had talked about with
regards to the person standing up and
saying hey like I really want something
more for my butt they've got a blind
spot to it you're but it's don't quit on
it right like if this person is someone
that you care about then don't quit on
it can continue to feed the environment
around the person because environment is
one of the most overlooked parts of
helping people make change happen
you know everyone talks about habits and
behaviors and all that stuff is great
and of course it's powerful but you put
someone in a completely different
environment and just the environment
itself through the osmosis of it can
help shift and change behavior you have
any examples of that and is this the
same idea that you've talked about with
context or is context an environment
different I would they're similar but
different so an example is just so there
was a young athlete that I was working
with who it's from the age of 10 Connor
growing up in South Florida hockey
player really good hockey player really
skilled and I was talking to his parents
about listen at some point in time
because if he wants to pursue this he
needs to get out of the environment of
Florida you know me being a Canadian you
know huge hockey country or whatever and
then in the northeast of the United
States and some other pockets like
Minnesota and even California's got a
great you need to get him into an
environment where he's around the best
because that environment is gonna allow
him to see the work that needs to get
done in order for him to compete at a
higher level so you need to pull
yourself sometimes out of an environment
and put yourself into another one and
that alone and so he did he went to this
amazing private school up in the
Northeast you know great lineage of
producing you know amazing talent in the
NBA and hockey as well and if that's an
example here's something that I've heard
you talk about I think is really
interesting I've obsessed with this
notion I think the reason that
environment the way that you're
explaining it is so powerful is you're
going to be like you're gonna become
like the people that you want to impress
and if you're around people may have a
value set and that value set is ambition
it's Drive it's discipline it's pushing
themselves it's reaching for greatness
yeah
and for whatever reason you want to
impress them they're good the thing you
want to be good at yeah they're cool for
whatever reason then you begin to adopt
seamlessly without even really thinking
about it you begin to adopt their values
as a method to impress them and then
because the values are going to control
your behavior so to to affect the
behaviors that are going to impress this
person you're naturally going to begin
to inhabit their value system yeah and
the malleability of values is something
that I think not a lot of people
understand yeah what is your like what
do you talk to people about in terms of
values how do you train them to change
them like if if put dropping them in
with people that already have the value
system I'll call sort of the the apex
move but what are things that people can
do you know if they're home alone by
themselves but they want to adopt new
values well to go one higher the real
apex move is to change someone's
identity okay
so value sit just outside of like the
like the way that you truce here like an
identity has made up of values no but
when you that's why the whole concept of
the alter ego is so powerful because the
moment that you've disabilities does
disassociated yourself from the you that
you're describing yourself as and you're
now acting through a new self a new
identity all bets are off because now
you're not shackled to the same
behaviors habits values even that you
had before same narrative about the
things that happen to you or you know
the the negative beliefs that you've got
about your capabilities because you're
acting through something different so as
a place to start but getting to your
question about the values yeah
absolutely
you know ship
ding someone's just what they appreciate
more like when you get around people
who've got a high financial acumen and
you're around them a lot like I'm
fortunate in New York some of my best
friends are some of the biggest people
on on Wall Street and money was never a
skillset that I had like horrible with
money but when I moved to New York that
became a goal of mine was to master that
skill set more and being around them
just how they talk about things how they
talk about investments are different I'm
like well what but I want to get to like
why are you seeing it that way because I
don't see it that way
but you've because you've got a blind
spot because I don't have the right
questions in my head yet so how are you
appreciating this investment or how are
you appreciating this paycheck that you
get with this money now that you've got
and now you're gonna go and turn it
around and put it somewhere else to
invest as opposed to other people take
it and they go and they spend it on
something to grad self gratify or
whatever but talk to me about the
process of breaking out of your identity
one I think that most people they're not
aware they have an identity
yayyyyy and here's here's one of the
things that I think people really
struggle with I think this is true of
beliefs I think it's true of identity I
think it's true of values is people
mistake it for truth so they they're
growing up in an environment people tell
them that that's how people should act
that this is what you should do this is
the things that you should value which
of course they never say they just they
reward they punish based on what you do
what you don't do you know things like
do you turn the other cheek when
somebody threatens you or do you know
you got punched in the face did you go
tell the principal or no you got punched
in the face you go punch them back and
don't come home until you do so all of
those things begin to create the
person's perspective but they are all of
those things because they start learning
them when they're so young they create
this veil of self evidence II you know
it simply is it has been a part of their
life from the beginning and so they have
a hard time teasing out that oh these
are all like this is a form enter values
here and you enter your values and your
belief
here and to your identity here and then
that gives you the output of sort of the
human and their behaviors and their
neurochemical rewards and punishments
and all of that not realizing like
that's that's how I think of it it's
it's like a form that you fill out or a
computer program maybe just to make this
really easy it's a computer program you
punch in the variables and then outcomes
a neurochemical response which makes you
feel some kind of way yeah and that's
some kind of way you're either gonna
move away from pain or move towards
pleasure and so once you can get people
to see these are variables and you can
change them you can manipulate them how
you want you can insert new things here
then people can really begin to - I'll
say shift their identity I'm not sure if
you would agree with that or if you
think identity is is something wholly
separate of that but if somebody wanted
to go through the process of changing
their identity how do they go about it
how do you first make them aware or do
you start with making them aware of the
identity they have yeah yeah so it's
well I'll get to that but I want to go
back to the language thing that we were
talking about that we use language as a
way to create our world yep
and so a good example is the word u u so
we use it all the time we say like
you're this way and so if someone keeps
on telling you over and over again that
you're a certain way like wow Tom like
you're so ambitious or you know Tom
you're such a good detailed person and
depending on whether that feels good it
doesn't feel good you're like yeah I'm
detailing you like reaffirm it to
yourself and then that sort of continues
to stack on and to your point about now
we're programming and we're reinforcing
that program adding more lines of code
to it to make it you know come to
fruition with our behavior but you there
is no you there is no you you cannot I
cannot put Tom Bill you underneath a
microscope or underneath any sort of
nuclear machine and find a you there is
a body that has many many different
expressions of this person Tom bill you
how you are with me right now in this
interview is a different bill you that
shows up when you're around Lisa right
so we have that the purpose of me really
hammering home that point with people is
to get them to realize that you have
many ident
there is no one identity so if you say
that your because I've worked with you
know Navy SEALs Green Berets Rangers and
when they put on that uniform they have
a specific credo that's being hammered
away every single day of what it means
to wear that uniform and what they have
challenges with is when they go home and
they take off the uniform they continue
to act that way and it's very easy right
you've been flexing the muscle of that
habit that behavior that mindset over
and over and over again and so what I do
with them is like what you have a
uniform that you step into when you go
home you should you should have a dad
uniform that you put on and what is that
dad uniform mean to you so that your
kids can get a different version because
I'm telling you that that version of you
that shows up that's going to be a drill
sergeant to them is gonna wear them out
and you're gonna have some like familial
issues going on later on so there's many
it's we're shapeshifters and and this is
what I'd say the Self Help the personal
development some of the spiritual
rituals have done a very poor job of for
a long time is hammering away at people
a lot of really poor narratives that
just are not true on how human beings
are built and our malleability our
flexibility the playfulness that we have
built into our creative imagination
where we can be and act in any way and
that's not a bad thing that doesn't make
you a schizophrenic that doesn't make
you a multiple personality disorder
individual no that makes you a human
being
that's simply tapping into a power that
allows you to perform at your best in
all the roles that you have or the ones
that are important to you because if I
have a Navy SEAL that walks up to me and
tells me that it's not important for him
to be a good dad that would be a shocker
to me so you know okay well then if
you're struggling with the fact that
you've got issues at home because that's
typically where we'll go police officer
same thing some of the highest divorce
rates that are out there
why because uniforms mean something to
people right and get into it in the book
and that's actually like step four of
the process for like how you actually
start to create identities for yourself
that are powerful and the the real power
of this comes from the power of the
tension most people are to your point
earlier are walking around completely
unaware of their own identity and
they're trapped by it because they think
well no that's just my story like that's
how I grew up it's like well good for
you
congratulations on that that doesn't
mean that you have to be that way
tomorrow because we as human beings are
not oak trees we're not trees and oak
tree has to be an oak tree forever human
beings don't have to be that story that
they've been living through forever we
have the ability to shift and change
rapidly so how do you walk people
through that is it an exercise about
tell me who you are like how do you get
them how do you force them down a path
of awareness yeah well I mean I don't
even need people to tell me who you are
is need to look at your results and that
tells me what you are you know and even
the word who who you are is a dangerous
question to ask people because when I
ask you who you are again that comes
from the spiritual traditions again like
I'm such a nerd on this stuff like I
want to DoubleTap deep on all these
things and get people to really see that
sometimes the phrases the questions the
statements the words that we use don't
help you actually make change happen so
who you are not that it's a dangerous
question it's a misleading question
because when I say who are you Tom you
immediately go to your past and you go
well I'm this and it's almost like an
about me page hits your resume right and
and that's not helpful so instead of
what do you want them to do is what are
your rates
no it's what are you okay what are you
made of because I want something you can
hold into what you know how to answer
that though exactly because we don't
think about it so what would what's an
answer that somebody's given you that
you thought yeah they get it yeah so
young athlete I was working with second
year in his NHL career like National
Hockey League and I said you know
because we kind of got in this
conversation about who are you Kiessling
who brought it up and I said no no like
what are you and he just thought himself
and he's like I'm invincible I thought
where does that
come from whereas in vincit like where
in you does invincibility sit and he was
just well when I think about all of the
kind of tough stuff that I have done I
always get up I'm like great that's a
that's a great building block to work
from you're invincible what else are you
because I want to get to like meat and
potato stuff there's so much and again
people that are watching or listening to
this right now you see this like there's
so many beautiful little sayings or
there's platitudes that are shared
amongst the personal that make you feel
good I'm not a feel-good guy I'll never
be the most popular person when it comes
to making change happen because I'm Way
too in people's faces like I want to
confront people with the reality of
doing tough stuff like I want to pour
salt on your hangnail because when I do
that what do you immediately do you want
to wash it off you take action whereas
everyone else they want to get you a
band-aid in some ointment for it no no
no no change happens from pain so how do
you somebody come to you they're an
elite athlete there's a certain amount
of they consent to having this done
mm-hmm but how do you find the hangnail
how do you start pouring the salt on it
what do you make them do are you is it a
therapy session you putting them on a
treadmill oh I don't do thoroughly I'm a
performance guy okay performance is all
about moving forward they come to you
then what yeah so they come to me and I
mean we have this diagnostic that I go
to you know kind of measuring people on
seven different pillars of like mental
toughness concentration ability if
they're answering questions or well it's
a diagnostic yeah so let's do they're
just writing down their answers or not
writing them down but they're grading
themselves on scales of like one two
four okay on these different areas and
that just shows me on the index like
where we've got the greatest opportunity
to make a change happen so you know if
they're currently under indexing in
their performance and they've rid
themselves low in focus then that would
be you know a training thing that I'm
going to pull out and start working with
them on that the one which is a bit of a
red herring that I put in there is
motivation
because motivation is something not
something that I work with you on
doesn't say why is that a red herring
because motivation is that you think not
a me thing I'm not here to motivate you
like an elite performer doesn't look for
me to motivate them that's a you think
not a me thing like and all these other
people who are out there trying to
motivate individuals you know as someone
who's been a practitioner of this I mean
I've worked with people for 17060 for
hours one on one Wow one on one that's
not counting all of the like seminars or
workshops or boot camps or speaking you
know engagements around the globe that's
one on one and so when you're working
with someone one on one tell me you
understand that so when you working
someone one-on-one like there is a
completely different level of nuance
where people are going to be sharing
with you in a completely different way
about what they're actually doing or
what they're actually thinking about
themselves in those moments when they're
both succeeding or when they're under
indexing and they're and they're failing
and and that's really really important
for anyone who is out there trying to
change something in their world if it's
an entrepreneur who's you know trying to
change their marketing find
practitioners find the ones who are
working people one-on-one because that
stuff matters because I'm I'm only you
know paid by improving someone's
performance if I keep on giving you
strategies Tom and they're not working
for you we're gonna be working together
for a long time whereas in a group
environment where someone's standing on
stage there's groupthink that is it that
is a natural phenomena that exists
amongst human beings where groupthink
happens where you know if someone's
trying to gain the love and adoration of
you know Tom or Todd or you know Tony or
whoever and Tony says that one strategy
or Todd says that one strategy don't
work for you and someone who just wants
to be a pleaser because yeah that worked
for me and then other people start
raising their hand then the other person
who hasn't raised their hand yet because
they've tried it they're like again we
don't wanna kicked out a kick out of our
tribe and now all these people are like
raising their hand so yeah that strategy
works amazing despite the fact that it
doesn't work how much of what you do is
is pure intuition not am not very much
so
you've not even in the beginning quite a
bit I was gonna say because you've got
the diagnostic I'm having trouble
following like exactly what you do
you'll have a diagnostic because what
I'm trying to do is some
at home right now I was listening they
want to have the change that want to
have the breakthrough yeah what the [__]
do they do is so okay well that's that's
different front like if we're talking
about identity I'm talking about oh
that's the process of if I'm onboarding
someone into my bits like into my I love
that yeah so I think that we'll get into
the nitty-gritty of yeah like what
you're trying to tease out so they're
doing the diagnostic it's telling you
yeah it's telling me where they need
training like where they haven't spent
much time on mastering the mental and
the emotional part of their game okay
okay right because we're trying to is
this reminiscent of a personality test
nah well there's there's there's
elements of that but you know I use a
whole bunch of different Diagnostics
because I'm not a believer like there's
so many people were out there or like
I'm an infj
or infj or whatever it is from
myers-briggs and I'm like boy again what
a fantastic way to trap your and limit
yourself because people love to say you
know that's why personality tests and
all these quizzes online are so popular
they go viral because they go I'm of
this people love to discover more about
themselves but what it actually does is
it traps many people because they're
like I'm an introvert and introverts
don't blah blah blah whatever they say
it's like okay great now you're gonna
live through that when you hear that you
hear alright this person has a label now
yeah label has created limitations well
they're no longer recognizing that
they're actually a multitude of and
what's interesting is I don't know what
word you would use their personalities
traits multiple events no multiple of
identities so identity okay so now real
fast define identity what does it
encompass an identity encompasses I
talked about in chapter 3 of the book
the different layers that gets tacked on
so you know at this core of what we are
is just like pure possibility like we
can we can move in many directions with
our with the kind of inborn talents of
what it means to be a human being okay
so there's a possibility outside of that
creates what I call this kind of core
drivers layer core drivers are things
that you've that you've attached
yourself to and that are attached to you
because of your your race your religion
your values where you're from because
people don't realize just how much that
stuff shapes them
no well I'm black so that means that
this or I'm white and that means this or
I'm Asian or I'm a Catholic Rama Jew or
Avenue have you heard that study where
if you take an Asian woman who's about
to take a math test and stereotypically
women or worse at math and
stereotypically Asians a better at math
yeah and if you prime her by saying oh
you're a woman I wonder how well you're
gonna do on the test they'll do worse
but if you take that same person and
Prime them oh you're Asian I wonder how
well you doing the test yeah then
they'll do better
yeah that is so crazy to me yeah and
when I was diving into some of your
research that was what I was thinking is
like that there's some of the you're
taking control of the priming
essentially yes so all right so keep
going understand so core drivers sit
there and again even being a part of a
larger group or like military man police
officer you know this so we we have
these labels and now because we they're
they're the things that really can help
either block someone's possibility or
you know unleash it in many ways we see
that the Olympics where someone who's
coming out of nowhere but now because
they're wearing to know the red white
and blue on their back or the red and
white from Canada or the wherever from
somewhere else they just level up
because of what it means to now
represent their country other people
conversely I can't use it with them
because I've worked with you know well
over 100 Olympians that actually crushes
their performance like it's just too
much way it's too much or they actually
don't care some people don't care like
it's that's not meaningful to them that
they're an American or a Canadian or a
Brit or an Aussie whatever the cases so
so that's the core drivers and then
outside of that I call it the belief
layer so that's where your attitudes
your perceptions your beliefs about you
or the world around you sit okay
this is all shaping that identity and
it's shaping it in the different areas
of our life and the roles that we play
that of an entrepreneur that of a parent
father husband wife you know lover
brother sister mom like all those that
we have and that's why it's important
that we sort of peel away the layer or
peel away and show that no you've got
many identities and we can shape you
know you get to shape yourself because
it
you're doing it anyway I'm not I'm not
explaining anything to anyone that is
not grounded in gravity like it's real
it's truth
we have many identities we just don't
think about it but I'm trying to build
awareness so that people can see it and
they go because once you build the
awareness all bets are off with people
because now do you have like archetypes
of alter egos that you push people
towards depending on what they're trying
to accomplish
I love archetype stuff but that's
probably where it's a little bit
intuitive but not necessarily you know
the the natural lean when you talk about
this is people talk about you know like
bringing that kind of like lion to
things or that roar or whatever but I
have one client she's in the book where
I talk about you know that never
resonates she's this real soft-spoken
like super kind person and her trying to
bring out like an inner lion thing
wasn't wouldn't work but for her she's
German she has a she's a deep history
and her family of like exploration being
in the outdoors and she had this really
great reverence for a buck like a male
deer and for her it was like the way
that it stands its ground despite the
fact that a bear is coming off that's
what people don't people don't see the
fights between a wild buck and a bear or
a cougar where it fights it off with its
antlers you don't see that they all see
the kill but sometimes the prey wins and
in a big male buck will will do that and
fight with its antlers fighters well but
for her what she needed because she was
a business owner and she again very
common thing where she had a sort of a
freelance marketing company and you know
scope creep you know it's like so now
she's but she's building a website for
someone I go you know what we need some
brochures done too you know can you add
that on yeah I'll do that too and
because she's so nice and kind all this
and now she's completely unprofitable or
she's just making you know a laughable
amount an hour so the way that she
started showing up in her business was
through this lens of a buck that stands
its ground and honors the fact that
she's valuable like she is
what she has is valuable and people need
to respect that Lyon wasn't gonna do
that so no archetypes I don't push
people towards certain ones and at the
end of the day the most common sort of
alter ego identity that people adopt is
actually grandmas if there was a
category Amma's and grandmas because in
order for you to either elite performers
not renowned sir or cops and these are
these are people that are either in in
the business world grandmas aren't
popular necessarily in the sports world
that's not where so I'm coming with
grandma so it and again you're not
becoming the grandma you're adopting the
traits the qualities or the abilities
that you admire about your grandmother
okay I've got a really wealthy man in in
New York who's a client for a long time
and he was kind of a traditional Wall
Street type that just railroaded himself
towards success burned out and churned
out a lot of leaders in his business but
now he had a very large private equity
business and his leadership team was
burning out quite a bit and so when I
started working with him his identity
needed to change because he was now in a
completely different role that what got
him to be successful right so that
hard-charging thing that really helped
him but that's not working now that's
gonna break his business so he needed to
step into a new identity couldn't figure
out a way to do that so when I was
talking about like well who do you
respect like who do you admire as great
leaders of business or just leaders in
general and he was talking about like
Jack wells or Sumner Redstone and and
these names were coming out and so I
kind about it just talking to him I
could get that he wasn't like
emotionally connected to that idea hmm
so then I just asked him what his family
cuz I knew a bit about it I mean I knew
his history and he started talking to me
about his his grandmother her husband
died in the Holocaust she had four young
boys brought them over to America
classic story of you know settling in
the Lower East Side with nothing seventy
dollars in her pocket raising these four
amazing young men all going on to have
tremendous success my client was the son
of
one of them and you know just talked
with great reverence about just how like
amazingly nurturing she was but really
strong with an iron rod up her back with
like the values of how we operate as a
family and and I said that's that's who
your identity is how did people then
grab that and actually put it to use
because you were talking earlier about
you know you need a uniform and do you
have the uniform or the dad you can walk
in so I'm thinking what's the uniform of
the grandmother but I'm guessing you're
gonna say it's not quite how it works
yeah so there's again there's there's
different ways to activate this so I
went on like you know continuing on with
that it's like actively like getting him
to realize well what are those qualities
that you just appreciate about your
grandma like what is it about it
because the reason well what are those
qualities one of those attributes and
one of those traits and then so yeah a
uniform really helps something we call
them totems and artifacts something that
physical that you can put on that can
help you step into that because again
we're acting with this intention now as
you're choosing it and and that item
represents what you're activating so for
him there was no thing there was no
something there isn't something he was
gonna go put on but there was another
quality that we use is something that
you use in your environment so he had a
framed photo of his grandmother and he
wasn't going to be like you know acting
through this identity throw his entire
date but it was when he needed to have
conversations with his leadership team
that he needed to like you know pump the
brake on his extraordinarily aggressive
personality and and start you know
acting with a completely different
intention so anytime he was about to
have a leadership conversation he had
this frame of his grandma sitting on his
on his credenza on his desk sorry and it
was we we like to create triggers so
there was a switch so he would turn that
frame so now she was facing him what's
the importance of the triggers that's
really interesting to me the importance
of it is to create rituals and why why
does that matter because human beings
are are grounded in rituals and there is
an it's almost like an honoring ceremony
because what I want you to do is I want
you to I don't want you to dishonor the
memory or the spirit of whatever or
whoever it is that you are activating by
not truly acting through the qualities
of that individual so the conversation
with him is is like now you know choose
your grandmother very carefully because
you you cannot go into a conversation
with your leadership team and act the
way that you do and dishonor the way
that your grandmother would handle that
by you acting in this completely you
know kind of wild and you know swear
Laden way because she wouldn't do that
so that trigger again it's just it helps
to send a signal through your entire
electrical system that something
different is happening so interesting
are you familiar with Tony Robbins and
this whole idea of state change Cheryl
VESA sure that stuff's really
interesting to me and there's something
so fascinating about the human ability
to change your state like in reading
your stuff about alter egos and I was
like okay this is interesting there's
something about for anybody that that
doesn't quite have their hooks into this
yet do the following exercise sit down
close your eyes and think smile yeah and
what's weird is you will feel the change
like you'll feel a neurochemical change
just by thinking smile yeah like you're
not actually moving the muscles you're
just thinking about the smile yeah my
gut instinct is if you sat there long
enough thinking smile you'd actually
start to smile and then to take this to
where you started that ritualistic move
there's something about birthing it
through physicality yes that and
actually be really curious to understand
the research or yeah you know the the
underlying physiological thing so I have
this obsession with physiological hooks
so there there is something about tying
your mindset to physicality sure that is
incredibly
important like when you see people
trying to do a state change athletes
will do this all the [__] time
yeah and I've done this I do this
sometimes if I don't want to get in a
cold shower and I'm like [__] yeah I
don't want to do this yeah and I have to
like state change it
I'll [__] pound my chest there's I
don't know what it is but dude you do
that and boom it's like I've got the
aggression I have exactly what I need to
tackle this and to just completely I
always think of it in terms of frame of
reference but my gut instinct is if I
were to define frame of reference and
you were to define alter ego we would
find that they're similar they may
exactly overlap but it's a no a very
similar I mean I've seen a lot of stuff
here I mean you talked a lot about
identity with people right like you're
you're you you're dancing around the
stuff that I've been working with people
on for you know 22 years really alter
ego stuff is what came into my practice
in 2003-2004 because I just started to
discover that this was the golden thread
that was weaving together all of these
elite people that I was now starting to
work with where they were talking about
I've got this persona that I step into
I've got this other kind of identity I
have this character that I use and you
know I played college football at a high
level I was a nationally ranked Bama
player I played sport out at a high
level not pro but I was a good athlete
and my responses back to those people
was always like oh that's really cool
because I use I use that as well it was
more like an interesting kind of
connection point and then it was me
preparing a US swimmer a lady for the
Athens Games back in 2004 where's just
the way that she said it worse all of a
sudden all of these dominoes of past
conversations came together and as like
wait a second there is this consistency
amongst the people who are consistently
performing at their best they keep on
referencing this idea there's something
there do you know who's Sasha Fierce is
of course I know who Sasha Fierce is
yeah absolutely to me is when I heard so
for anybody listening that doesn't know
who Sasha Fierce is that's Beyonce is
alter ego yeah on stage and I thought
whoa that's so interesting that somebody
that's successful uses this technique to
have the balls essentially to go out on
stage to own it to be fierce and she
needed it you know when you take a look
at her
Gouri she's a gospel singing young black
girl from Houston Texas who people would
show up every Sunday they can't wait to
hear
Beyonce saying gospel songs her dad
recognizing her talent and her love for
music gets her and Solange inside of a
dance group there's eight of them and
now Beyonce who's used to dressing very
modestly in a church environment singing
gospel hymns and songs is now asked to
sing provocative music dancing
provocatively
she had a real internal-combustion over
this right now I want people to track
this are there some things that you've
got some internal-combustion over right
now that you're resisting against
because you have a tough time seeing
yourself do it despite the fact that you
want to manifest it you want to pursue
that entrepreneurial career you want to
pursue that acting or that singing or
you want to get out there okay so she
then created Sasha Fierce someone else
another identity to go out there that
loved going out there performing loved
the provocative loved dancing that way
and that's who she would step into and
activate when she went out there now all
of a sudden she could protect for
herself that sort of more innocent
Beyonce and what she found and that's
why I share in the quote there's her in
the book there's this great quote by the
Hollywood golden era actor Cary Grant
where he said and again born in Bristol
England in a very modest family single
mother but always wanted to make
something of himself traveled over to
Hollywood and you know became known as
this you know charismatic debonair
good-looking guy but at the end of his
career he had this great quote where he
said I pretended to be somebody I wanted
to be and I finally became that person
or he became me but at some point in
time we met which i think is one of the
most beautiful quotes that a human has
uttered the only thing I would change is
not I pretended but I activated you
chose it and so if you think about it is
there's this you that you've got
described in your own mind right
and I think of it like a circle of a
vendor qu'elle vienne diagram and you've
got this other self that you want to be
or this kind of aspirational idea of
what you want to be and for me the alter
ego was the thing that could help bring
them together and then after a while
you're truly acting behaving thinking
this way and you don't need to activate
Beyonce or Sasha Pearson where because
Beyonce in 2008 when she came out of her
came up with her album famously retired
Sasha Fierce she said I don't need her
anymore but that was her private section
verses always her private sort of
identity but now she could go out there
and own the stage and you know didn't
need to activate or didn't need to think
about Sasha anymore cuz she that was
what she became
how is this not pretending because
pretending is just the word alone is has
the sort of intention or the thinking of
concerning yourself with the thoughts
opinions and judgments of other people
screw them like it doesn't not
necessarily a change in affectation but
it's a change in the way that you think
about it it's the way that you changed
we because any time you're trying to do
something to deceive or trick other
people yeah that that isn't a healthy
way to be operating from because what it
ends up doing is it traps you because
that's that's not the healthy way that
you want to build your identity but even
in the book I talk about the difference
in chocolate I talk about the difference
between that outside in approach which
is you trying to do things for other
people trying to impress other people
worried about what other people are
thinking about you so then you don't do
the thing anymore
concerned with you know what if everyone
sees this crappy video that I've just
done and you know they they judge me as
being you know a loser on video or
whatever or we could all see that it's
just the maturation process that you've
gone through like the tom bill you in
interviews today is different than the
tom bill you that came out interview
number one right like you're you're I'm
and I'm guessing but I know it's true
you're better at asking questions you
dive deeper you've got a you know a
richer
said of you know just confidence around
being patient kind of saying you know
what you just said something let's go
back to that you know we were talking
about that earlier sir whereas the
intention of you saying you know this
this is how I want to show up now I am
NOT going to stay tethered to this past
narrative I'm gonna stay tethered to
these ideas that I have to be this way
because someone from Topeka Kansas has
never made it somewhere or that someone
in Topeka Kansas can't be the most
creative artist on the planet what if
you were the first in Topeka Kansas to
be the most creative artist on the
planet and people flew into Topeka in
order to see you that would be
phenomenal for you to go and do so it's
just it's the changing in the perception
of where we're coming from here but I
wanted to come back to something you had
said is like when you said you were just
fascinated with this whole state change
thing and that you're like getting into
the sense well don't me to show you some
science yes so a great piece of research
so there's a psychological phenomenon
that we've got called in clothed
cognition enclosed cognition is that we
as human beings we attach meaning and
story to the clothing that other people
wear or that we wear so Kayson oh wow
yes so if someone were to walk into this
room with us right now and they hung on
a doctor's coat or a lab coat
immediately at an unconscious level
you're gonna make a whole bunch of
assumptions and tell a story about that
person question right so it could be
that they're successful and again
everyone's different because all of us
have had different experiences with
people in white coats but for the most
part it was a doctor's coat it's that
they're successful or they're they're
smart they're detailed and and so on so
we do that what people don't realize is
that with this power of include
cognition by you putting on something
you're actually changing at an
unconscious level the way that you're
about to go and act dude I'm so with you
yeah
so there was you know I've done for the
longest time my whole alter ego method
that I would use with athletes was like
my 11 herbs and spices like I kept it
locked away I didn't talk about it very
much because I became well-known at like
really high levels and
whereas the guy I'm like I'm like I'm
the quick hit artist I'm the quick
change guy like when someone's playing
at the US Open on Saturday and they're
in a rut right now on a Wednesday you
know meditation undoubtable it is a core
pillar practice that we put in place for
everybody I've been talking about
meditation since 97 when yoga wasn't
cool right because there's just nothing
that can help align the mentally
emotional in the physical self better
than meditation but meditation ain't a
quick hit thing so you know I didn't
talk about you know on stages and very
much around the idea of an alter ego
because I really didn't want some of my
compete tree it's to latch onto it so
but I done a speech and a word got back
to this lady and universal Minnesota at
least that's the story that was told and
she did this great little study with
four to six year old kids where they
they brought them into this room and
there was this kind of puzzle with a
whole bunch of padlocks on it and they
gave all the kids this ring of keys to
unlock all the padlocks okay but they
divided them up into groups of three and
one group they were just in their plain
clothes and given the keys and then
another group they were told to pretend
like their favorite superhero or someone
that they look up to the favorite
superhero so then they do it and then
another group they brought in a rack of
clothing and there was Batman and Dora
the Explorer costumes and they said put
on the costume and and here's the keys
and let's go in awe at those costumes
fascinating what happened the kids that
were just in their plain clothes quit on
the task of opening all the padlocks
because the keys that they had didn't
open any the locks it was a red herring
they just wanted to see with frustration
how long they realized so they quit the
first they were the first ones to quit
so what's that measuring grit and
perseverance two things that you know we
all talk about all the time of just what
it takes in order to achieve something
right because you're gonna need it now
the young kids that pretended to be
Batman or whatever their favorite
superhero was they lasted longer but
they didn't last as long as the kids who
had on the costume or the uniform that
is [__] so interesting and but here's
the here's
the other side effect of it they weren't
expecting to be tracking self-talk so
how kids were talking about because
young kids if you if you around them
they don't just keep the thoughts in
their head they're talking it out loud
it's like when they when they meet
someone who's chubby or they're like oh
why is he so fat like it's just you know
you're like let's just please just you
know have some social decorum so the
young kids that were just in their plain
clothes or say like I'm not good at
puzzles or I can't get this I quit
okay so I I can't get this I quit I'm
not good at puzzles kids we were wearing
the uniform though they would say things
like mm wouldn't quit so I'm not gonna
quit Dora the Explorer always finds a
way so I'm gonna find a way right they
had now disassociated from whatever
their own identity was and they started
acting through these other traits of
Dora of Batman that's kind of like me
sort of putting together the pieces for
everyone around why using a totem an
artifact some sort of object is so
important to help you activate those
traits from the person or the thing that
you're most inspired by I want you to
have an emotional connection with this
new identity
that's why grandmas are chosen so often
I'm not saying like 50% of all all three
goes I'm saying if there's a category
they get chosen quite a bit because it's
an easy emotional connection that's why
for that one lady a lion wasn't gonna
work but a buck did you know Kobe
Bryant's story of you know Black Mamba
now he's going through an
extraordinarily challenging time when
that sexual assault case was going
against him he was losing his edge
losing it felt like he was losing
himself in it he was losing his what his
identity watched Kill Bill saw the black
mamba and kill Vil Kill Bill and said
that's I'm gonna be the Black Mamba on
the court I would put Kobe Bryant up
against any you know animal biologist on
the planet for knowledge of a black
mamba
he knows a lot about black mambas
because when you find something that you
resonate with get to know as much if you
can as you can about it because it it's
it's like the grapple hooks you start to
get their story into you now is that so
we're gonna start acting through as
those qualities so Beyonce she created
Sasha Fierce she's one of the few people
that
you just sort of out of thin air created
something a lot of people use and
leverage something else like I talked
about in the book with Bo Jackson using
you know his alter ego which was a
character in a horror movie yeah you
know when he stepped it was important
yeah so my point about that I was like
no there is science and research behind
it yeah before we move off that I want
to talk about self signaling so this is
a personal obsession of mine so we did a
whole clothing line at impact theory
it's called the self signaling line and
it was all things you should be telling
yourself where exactly the mantras and
things that you should be thinking about
believing because to me I feel very
different if I'm wearing something that
reminds me of something yeah that is
important to me yeah so and the notion
of having a totem like one of the things
a lot of people come to me and the
punchline of the reason from my
perspective they're not getting where
they want to get is they don't know how
to desire they don't know how to obsess
yeah they don't know how to marinate in
something like you want this thing well
you have to [__] like it like it
really got to be a part of you you've
got to make it a core part of your
identity yeah and for you to make it a
core part of your identity you have to
find ways to soak in it and one of the
ways is to have that totem that artifact
that piece of you just whatever you wear
that it becomes like your cape or you
know whatever the case may be so like
for instance I wear a ring it has a
robot face on it it is it is arguably
the most enjoyable thing I've ever
purchased in my life and for me the
robot is a symbol of creation of being
able to create something this the the
notion of of being man-made yeah and
there's an island in Tokyo called Odaiba
which is a man-made island and on that
island they have this giant Gundam robot
that actually articulates and talks and
yeah it is insanely cool to me yeah and
the whole notion of just like what a man
can do like when they learn the things
they need to learn they have the skills
the skills have utility they put them to
use they create an island out of nothing
yeah and then put upon that Island a
gigantic robot which also is made me
it's just like there's something about
the power of human ingenuity of creation
of all that that I love and then it's a
[__] giant robot and I just like
trying
and so I bought the ring and I remember
saying to my wife Lisa when I got it I
said this is so silly and yet so
powerful for me as like this incredible
reminder yeah and every time I feel its
weight on my finger I think about the
grand ability for humans to create now
why is that important I'm trying to
build the next Disney it is the most
gigantic like undertaking that fits
within my bailiwick I will say that Elon
trying to yea colonize Mars is a lot
bigger so I'm not saying it's the
biggest ever but in terms of like what
I'm actually interested in the skills
that I want to acquire and all of that
it's it is a very big dream and it will
take me a very long time to execute
against and so having this totem having
something that I can put on having this
thing and the funny thing is literally
because I'm telling you this story and
I'm allowing myself to get animated and
I'm allowing it to fill me up I'm
further reinforcing 1% what it means and
so tomorrow when I put the ring on yeah
like it's actually going to mean more to
me tomorrow than it did today because
I'm reinforcing this notion right this
is my grandma I'm thinking about Grammy
I'm trying to honor grandma I have this
ritual of putting the ring on and you
should weren't touching it more as
you're doing it and putting it on
sliding it back and forth because for me
you know to to that like that's like
that right there is amazing like that I
love that like for me like starting out
in business 22:21 looked like I was 12
maybe 10 like I had a baby face and I
was so insecure about what other people
were thinking of me how could I go on
stages and now talk about mental game I
haven't won four awards I haven't run
written three books I'm not 43 years old
I don't have a tweed jacket with leather
patches on my elbows all that kind of
stuff but the reality was I was really
freaking good at getting across these
principles that had helped me because
I'm not a physical specimen I'm not six
foot four 240 pounds but I played way
bigger than my size was and definitely
got as much out of myself as I could in
order to you know perform how I did in
athletics but I was so insecure about
how young I look
and he was stopping me from making the
phone calls book in the workshops or you
know getting clients get myself out
there whatever whatever it was at the
time and and I was like wait a second
you used Geronimo as your alter-ego on
the football field and I said why don't
you use that Todd and I was like wait a
second cable Geronimo was a little bit
rough doesn't quite work in business so
then I was like well you know who who or
what am I really inspired by and would
love to activate their qualities to help
me get through this phase and Benjamin
Franklin always loved Benjamin Franklin
Joseph Campbell you know one of my one
of my personal heroes and and Superman
like you know the 1980s you know
Superman and that was it and I was like
okay that's I'm gonna and because I had
this whole ritual that I'd go through
and I was in the locker room to get
ready for football games I'm like well
what's my what's my thing I didn't call
it a told him at the time but what's my
object and it was gonna be glasses
because I was gonna do the reverse Clark
Kent you know Superman put on glass to
become the mild-mannered version of
himself to be accepted by society and
walk around but I was already
mild-mannered I was already blending
into the walls as oatmeal that I didn't
want that so my glasses were gonna
activate that superhero self inside of
myself and so I went out and I bought a
pair of non prescription glasses and
that's what I wore and I'd put those on
and I would practice putting them on and
feeling more because I was I lacked
confidence I was indecisive and I wasn't
very articulate with you know what I was
what I had to offer so I wanted to be
confident decisive and articulate that's
who I wanted to be and I knew that the
people that were gonna hire me they
wanted that too because anyone who is
trying to hire someone who has an
expertise in something what they're
actually hire hiring is certainty and
confidence and clarity those like when
someone shows up and you're like oh like
I feel like if I had that guy on my team
or that woman on my team we're gonna
make it happen
so I you need to show up that way and so
I practiced putting those on putting
those on my point about this was -
getting to your whole you know when you
put that on tomorrow that trigger
it's just being embedded that emotional
charge that you get the act of this
little arm sliding across here because
now I just wear glasses just for dress I
don't need them to to step into that
confidence particulate self now I just
use it for dress but even now when I do
this it's like a switch is getting
flipped and I'm being very intentional
because I want to be intentional when I
show up as a whether it's a leader for
my team or when I'm showing up on a call
where we're gonna close a new team to
work with or a new client or something
like that like I want to show up as my
absolute best heroic self for that other
individual because I'm deeply driven by
service it runs deep in my family I want
to serve I know that's you as well like
you want to serve and then you're gonna
leave this amazing legacy for this thing
that you built that's what's so
impressive legacy yeah like it's what so
impressible
Gaudi he OD who's Gaudi Gaudi he started
the construction of a church in the
early 1900s which based on his design
was going to take a hundred and fifty
years to be built the vision of that man
to start working and laboring on
something that he was personally never
going to see the end of people have
talked a lot about vision in business
he's the ultimate benchmark of vision
that is next level I mean it's still
under construction outside of Barcelona
Spain or in Barcelona and you know it's
one of the most amazing structures
that's on our planet right now so you
know when you were doing that I almost
wanted to reach over and like except
there's gonna look really weird on
camera if I was doing that but like yeah
yeah yeah don't do that Todd that's a
little bit too intimate but like it's
just like yeah play with that on there
you know it's interesting to me how it
grows with power like understanding how
you can reinforce the stuff how you can
make it meaningful like there are so
many this word is played out but there's
so many hacks and things that people can
do to reinforce this stuff and I think
all too often people look at somebody
who's successful and they think well
lucky them it must be nice
you know they have this out of the other
they have the confidence whatever not
realizing at some point you find a way
whether it's through physiological hooks
which that was a big one for me to lower
my anxiety so diaphragm breathing is a
physiological hook into the
parasympathetic nervous system known as
rest and digest so if you're wondering
like how the hell do I get out of this
anxious over AMP State sure there is a
physiological hook which is as you
breathe from your diaphragm whether you
want to or not you're going to begin
sliding into that state yeah and then
there are some things that you just have
to decide so you talked about
decisiveness decisiveness is
intoxicating
like when somebody has like they're just
they're gonna do it they're convinced
they can get other people on board like
this is it that level of clarity is so
intoxicating to people and when I do it
for the team and they see it I can feel
them galvanizing behind the idea and the
thing is I'm honest with them I'm just
[__] deciding I'm just saying like
there's seven options before us I don't
[__] know which one is gonna work
yeah but I'm not afraid to pick one yeah
and go with all my gusset and I'm not
gonna pick one that's obviously bad yeah
so I'm picking one that I think has a
shot but what people allow themselves to
do they allow themselves to be paralyzed
they allow themselves to accept from
themselves that oh I don't know I'm not
sure [__] that like my whole thing is
being unsure you don't think I'm unsure
you don't think I wonder I wonder if
this is gonna work yeah but I've simply
decided you have to value decisiveness
and once you say okay I'm gonna I'm
gonna value this thing then I'm going to
act in accordance with it with chains
okay I'm looking at two options I'm not
entirely sure which one I'm gonna go
with a maybe I'm going with a because I
have a lighter ring on that hand and so
just felt better to point towards one
who the [__] knows but I'm gonna go with
that I'm gonna be all-in I'm gonna do
everything I can to make it work but I'm
gonna constantly look and see is it
actually working yeah it's not working
that I'm gonna switch so now I've got
this dual thing and my team knows one
I'm not afraid to pick I'm gonna move
forward I will accept the consequences
yeah and I'm not a dumbass so if it's
not working
yeah I'm gonna move but like beginning
what what I love about you
messages people at some point they have
to take responsibility for who they want
to become write this Harry grant quote
yeah it's who you want to become it's
not necessarily who you are today
yeah but it is who you want to become
and at some point you do have to take
the first step into the unknown you have
to act you have to act as if like you've
got a you've got to put it out there
you've got to be decisive even when
you're unsure you've got to move forward
you've got a project confidence so that
you can begin to really feel and
internalize the confidence you've got to
have yeah the physical thing whether
it's turning your talisman or having in
your pocket and running it over but
understanding that whether it's the buck
imagery whether it's your robot ring you
have to infuse it with meaning
mhm like the fact that you said that
Coby knows more about the black mamba
than anybody else it's like that's how
you infuse it with meaning yeah yeah I
might talk it there's so many things to
ping off with it I want to go back to
when you said that when you put in your
ring you're like and you set your wife
like this is gonna be silly there's
actually I mean we're having a serious
conversation with deep and meaningful
things that we hope that at least one
person that's listening or watching is
going to like make a paradigm shift and
just all of a sudden a new world's gonna
show up for them but one thing I want to
reinforce with people is one of the
great powers of this idea or one of the
great powers that human beings have is
playfulness the thing I love about this
idea and I could see with people as I
could see stress and anxiety melt away
when they started to get engaged with
the idea and see how playful it is to
know that this is you again I I am I am
the the person standing out in front of
other people talking with the power of
alter-egos I don't care that people know
that the glasses that I wear are not
real like it's just wear them for dress
what I don't care about that because I'm
I'll use them as a signal and a totem to
tell other people that I don't care but
you do know that I am being very
intentional about I want to bring my
best self so I can serve you in this
moment that's why they're there but it's
that when I could when I could see
someone really understand that this is
them being playful it's like you don't
even know
I'm showing up as Batman in this moment
when I'm in the boardroom right now like
that playful idea cuz playfulness the
whole reason that I'm doing this is
because I'm I want to get my clients the
people that buy our training programs
and whatnot to get to that zone in flow
state that zone in flow state where
every capability that you have comes
flowing out of you
unhindered by the resistance that or the
judgment or the self-talk that typically
slows you down that's the reason that we
do this playfulness is the key that
unlocks the back door to peak
performance and we're walking through
the doorway of our creative imagination
to make a habit that is our superpower
the you know the best genre of movies
right now superhero movies that Marvel
comic that DC comic world that's out
there why because there's this natural
hero's journey narrative that we latch
on to with it also we love the fantasy
idea in our own mind of like what would
I have if I had a superpower you know
but we forget when we do human beings do
we're the only living thing on this
planet with this one ability it's not
love it's not affection am I saying that
they're not powerful a hundred percent
they are but nothing else on this planet
has creative imagination nothing else on
this planet can choose to in the moment
decide to be someone or something else
can make you know a heaven from hell or
a hell from heaven we have that ability
you've got two people the same
experience is happening to them one
chooses a completely different path and
they you know strive and they thrive
another one gets crippled by it that's
fascinating to me that's fascinating
that we can do that that our creative
imagination builds story and narrative
in our own minds yeah that that's crazy
have you read the long walk to freedom
by Nelson Mandela no I have dude [__]
read that book it's crazy
so I read Joseph Campbell when I was
must have been in my late teens early
twenties something like that and he
talked about how you know rituals really
lost and he thought that that was a big
part of why adolescents had become
stunted like there was no grand
a moment where you knew like hey you're
different he was like there were
societies that used to take teenagers
out into the woods and they would
literally kick their teeth in yeah you
had people that would you know
circumcise adults with no anesthetic or
not adults but you know a 13 year old
and you you went through something hard
and by going through that thing like you
knew okay on the other side of this I'm
a different person yeah and so in long
walk to freedom
Nelson Mandela was one of the last
generations that went through this thing
and they took three or four boys at once
that we're all I think 13 and they have
them sit down with their legs splayed
and like elder comes along with a really
sharp rock and the kids are sitting
there buck naked in front of the whole
tribe yeah and the guy comes up grabs
their foreskin and just cuts it off with
the rock and then they have to yell I
think that that throw their arm up and
yell this warriors like create yes yeah
and I just thought whoa like in that
moment yeah you know like because the
moment is imbued with so much meaning
and there are people there and it is
ritual literal yeah percent like once
you're on the other side of that you
really do like something kicks in and
makes you feel differently and so when I
got married I wanted to do the same
thing I wanted to be ritualistic Elise
card yeah and so because I wanted to be
a different person before and a
different person after and so I ended up
getting tattooed it's the only tattoo
that I have yeah and I wanted something
that was painful and at the time I was
just absolutely terrified of needles
yeah so doing something that was facing
this gigantic fear that I knew was going
to be painful and that was gonna leave a
permanent scar on my body it like
carried all this weight in this emotion
for me but it goes back to that notion
of what is it imbued with mhm and so
really being conscious of grabbing ahold
of that narrative understanding what
that narrative is understanding that
humans are meaning making machines
that's what we do
all day long and when you can take a
hold of that in your own life like I
don't have to wait for nobody told me to
get the tattoo alright so it was just
your own life where's an area where you
can apply a different meaning a new
meaning a more powerful meaning to what
you're doing yeah that's going to give
you that direction and purpose that's
going to allow you to step into your
inner superhero or whatever but it's
going to give new meaning to what you're
doing which elevates it importance which
gives it a lasting impact which then
gives it the ability to sort of pull you
through difficult times times where
maybe you're indecisive or times where
you're feeling weak or whatever you've
got this thing to fall back on that
narrative and do you know you've all
know a Harare yes oh man so as you know
like his work around humans and
narrative and the way that societies are
organized around those narratives it's
it's really pretty extraordinary well
and and that gets to my point like when
I was talking about the whole you know
when you build out that identity model
at that core drivers layer that societal
narrative that sits there you know
people don't realize that it can be a
dome or a glass ceiling that they don't
even realize is is stopping them until
the example of a time where it holds
somebody back yeah so you know yeah
there is a client just I'll use an
example of a client in in New York a
Jewish woman who you know grew up in an
environment where in in her particular
kind of tribe the female shouldn't be
making as much money as the male
counterparts okay it's not even just a
Jewish community
it's pervasive in you know other white
communities and Catholic Christians so
but and it was but but again it the
that's why I say like in the book I talk
about the two selves there's the trapped
self which ends up happening when you
have this outside in pressure that you
know when you're trying to worry about
other people and and you feel trapped
because you know that all of you isn't
getting out there somehow and then
there's the other side which is this
heroic self and the heroic self isn't
that you're a hero but you feel heroic
in the moment because whether or not you
got the result that you're looking for
you acted the way that you wanted to
know whether it was that whether it was
you in a moment sticking up for a friend
who someone else was you know you know
lobbing insults at and you got in there
and you you know is you taking a stand
saying you know you don't do that or
whatever your response is in that moment
or you raising your hand in a in a
meeting and you you know voicing your
concern when typically you would state
rap because you don't want to say
something in front of your boss you know
that feels heroic to you so so for for
her she had this huge aspiration and
desire to continuously grow her business
but she was stunting it because if she
did if she made even a thousand dollars
more she was going to surpass her
husband and and she was making all these
assumptions without even talking to her
hospital was she unaware of it or did
she know she was unaware what I don't
want she was unaware that that was that
that was actually the thing she was she
was you know using other things as the
reasons why her business wasn't growing
I can't find the right customers Todd I
don't think my marketing is really
working right now what was it that she
said or did that got you to that
realization so this is where just the
experience that I have of knowing that
you know there's a lot of things that
are hidden from people that they don't
realize me knowing that she's what do
you look for though are you looking at
body language are you looking at word
choice yeah well I'm looking I'm looking
at the whole I'm looking at the identity
of the person so she's a Jewish woman I
know kind of the the group that she you
know lives inside of so right away big
that's why it's so important for us I
think for people to help make change
that I need to consume as much as I
possibly can around cultural narratives
like you know I've I've worked in 86
countries around the world whoa like not
my phone traveled to Kazakhstan I've
worked in every a stand that there is
Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan Afghanistan
Pakistan like you know so I've been and
it's and when you and when you work
inside those cultures it's very
different than traveling there as a
tourist we get to work inside then you
get to really see how they're you know
the coexisting and whatnot so it's
important for me to just really dive
deep into all these different you know
worlds that are different from mine so
that I can pick up on them far more
quickly so I can you know because I want
to be known as someone who can make
change happen fast a lot of people don't
want that because the place is an
expectation on you
I want the expectation I'm a tiger I
want to hunt that down I want to get the
kill for you faster than someone else
you know I want that moniker placed on
me a lot of people don't want it know I
want it and that's what winners do
winners want that winners want that
final play that's drawn up with two and
a half seconds left and the coach saying
you're getting the ball I want the ball
and everyone that's watching this and
listening to this they should want the
ball to the moment that you make the
decision that you want the ball all bets
are off boy like I get chills I'm right
now I got chills because it's amazing
when someone makes that shift maybe were
talking about with decision when you
when you decide now we use the again
it's a platitude who's that you know
like men you just when you decide to
take responsibility for your life hey
that's wonderful so those are those are
great platitudes me I want meat potatoes
I want to give you something that helps
you truly embody that and for me it's I
get I get right now that you can't see
yourself making that change but what I
do know is you have the capacity and
abilities gifted with you
as a human being to start acting to and
through some other identity someone else
that you're inspired by and whether you
use glasses to activate that whether you
use a robot ring whether you use a
picture of your grandma on the table
whether you use a Wonder Woman bracelet
like one of my equestrian clients uses
when she activates one room and when she
gets on that horse think about that as a
sport it's the only sport where you have
another animal that most beautifully
transmutes your emotional state to
everyone else you talk to me about that
so horses are [__] weird men
so how is it that they're picking up on
so much human emotion well it's who
knows I am not the expert on definitely
all things emotional around horses but
they have this phenomenal capacity to
detect your energy field that's why
they're used in you know so many
different types of therapy whether it's
around autism whether it's around you
know helping
but overcome PTSD and trauma there
they're just these walking caretakers
they're phenomenal like you know I grew
up on a big ranch I had you know three
horses of my own Cracker Jacks oxen
midnight and you know the the lesson
that my father gave me early on was if
you're ever out on the farm and the
ranch and you get lost just ask them to
go back home and and that's that that's
the thing if you're ever lost in the
wilderness and you happen to have a
horse with you follow the horse the
horse will take you back someplace in
something or someone and but you know
getting back to to my client she was
someone who was a Type A personality ran
her own business
and kind of operated in novice
competitions in the in the category of
dressage so it's basically like you know
intricate you know you're doing
intricate moves out on in this arena
where every single little subtle
movement on your part and the horses
part is being graded right so you got
people watching you and judging you well
that's already gonna trigger some
anxiety in people so if you're getting
on this horse that beautifully
transmutes your emotional state and
you're someone who's anxious now the
horse is anxious it's not going to hit
its mark and so when talking to my
client and I asked her I'm like okay get
it Lisa you're anxious but what I do
know is there is a version of you right
now that isn't anxious now who could we
use to activate that non anxious person
now who do you look at that you admire
the way that they show up and
immediately it was Lynda Carter
Lynda Carter's version of Wonder Woman
because this is before the new Wonder
Woman movie there come on this is
several years ago and I said why what is
it with Lynda like and I mean I do it in
a way where I want to challenge people
like yeah that sounds cliche that's
boring or whatever because I want them
to sell me on it right Oh cuz again I
want that emotional charge happening
inside of them so wine Lynda Carter
because she stands her ground no matter
what's happening around her she owns the
space that she's in it doesn't matter
she moves forward all the time she never
retreats but she just it's this and I
didn't need her because words are clumsy
for us and I was like all I care
is that I see that there's an emotional
state change for her mmm that she gets
it on the inside I'm like I just don't
like I get it
say no more because I don't her to talk
herself out of any right so that was it
so we went out and that was the ritual
now before she got on the horse she
would snap and I'm and I tell her make
sure that the class but that you get
because she made a custom-made bracelet
make sure that that clasp is like it
makes a sound because sound is a
phenomenal trigger to the human brain
like and so when you hear that snap boom
that's when Wonder Woman takes over but
you gotta honor her because Lynda Carter
would never ever go out on that horse
and not own that routine own sitting on
top of that horse and let your horse
know that you're you got this make it
relaxed and confident in the routine her
trainer is the world's top dressage
trainer he's got a barn out in
Connecticut he's got the most world
champions that train out of his barn he
called me up ten months into us working
together and and and my client asked if
he was okay they connected
I said yeah absolutely and he said Todd
I gotta say I don't get I don't get this
I don't get how this person who is
always kind of in the average is now
winning the championships around the
world it doesn't make sense that someone
can ascend that quickly and as like
nothing about the human being above
human beings makes sense but you know
our jobs as people who coach and train
and mentor and advise other people is to
make sure that we don't look at someone
as someone we need to fix is that we
don't need to tell them that there's
something outside of them that they need
to go and get or acquire in order for
them to be better be whole or whatever I
treat you like everything that you've
got in order to be successful right now
is already there it's just under a bunch
of muck and mire a bunch of dust it's
under a bunch of story a bunch of
narrative that if we cut those strings
those puppet strings those miserable
strings that are stopping you or
preventing you or making you behave in a
certain way that all of a sudden this
this possibility this new possibility
comes out of you and
anyway you know he was just so I
explained to him like the process of how
I was working with her and what we were
actually doing behind the scenes and so
I said you know it's not you know Sarah
up on that horse that's that's one woman
up on that horse and she owns that she
hunter % owns it that's who's up there
competing is Wonder Woman and she loves
that playful idea in her mind that no
one knows that Linda Carter and Wonder
Woman are up there competing it looks
like Sarah but it's not talk to me about
Olympians and pressure this is something
that I think a lot about like the amount
that's on the line for somebody and make
a mistake a tenth of a second is the
difference between ten million dollars
in endorsements and a life of absolute
obscurity how do the best of the best
deal with that yeah so pressure is an
interesting thing I don't let the idea
of pressure live inside of my universe
it's not gravity in this world pressure
is everyone talks about it as if it's
real and it's not pressure is something
that you are somehow applying to
yourself based on the moment and the
story that you're wrapping up so like we
can't have one without the other like we
can't talk about how story and narrative
is what human beings do and then we
can't talk about how maybe something
doesn't exist
maybe pressure doesn't exist because
pressure is what meaning that you're
attaching to an event what if we were so
deliberate and intentional about the
meaning that we were always attaching to
events that it didn't create pressure
for ourselves but it created something
else now I'm not saying pressure doesn't
exist for other people hundred percent
it does but I was their creation not my
creation but yes there are moments that
can be filled with stress and anxiety if
you allow them to like if when I have a
skier who is pointing their tips down
the face of a slope that looks like a
cliff and it's filled with ice basically
based on the amount of athletes that
already went in front of them and
they've got to make tight turns around
flags and the only thing stopping them
is some orange plastic netting that's
running along the side
if you do not have 100% complete and
utter trust Trust is the key that's what
we're pursuing trust when you trust
yourself when you trust your preparation
when you trust your routines that's when
you now opened up the doorway for a
personal best to happen but the only way
that we can get there is through us
focusing on the process all the way down
the hill the greatest example of someone
in the in the final moment of a
competition losing their focus on what
they were doing and seeing if they won
was the great race between Michael
Phelps and I think it was the check
swimmer at the at the Beijing Games when
he was beating Phelps throughout the
entire race dominating and the last last
lap Phelps is making a comeback making a
comeback making a comeback and it's
gonna be like a photo finish at the end
and they both come to the wall the guy
is in front of Phelps and as he's coming
to reach towards the wall he immediately
pops his head up before he's hit the
wall and when you pop your head up what
happens shoulders come back when your
shoulders come back while your arms are
attached to your shoulders so what do
they do
they come back to and Phelps drove
through the wall any beaten by I think
it's two hundredths of a second that's
the difference to your point about
someone who gets the gold and someone
who gets the silver who wins and someone
who loses in that instant I thought it
was and I use that example all the time
and I play the video in in different
presentations of just like and I my
point about it is the difference of two
and through because I love just getting
people to think about words what would
you tell that guy like how do you
rebuild that guy the guy that loses that
story is interesting to me do you know
anything about him like where now what's
he doing yeah how does he think of him
so he can continue to compete and
continue to compete at a high level okay
but it's like you know you you you lost
that race that version of you lost that
race so like I'm always playing as like
you know so we've got a we've got a
we've got an opportunity
in a decision right now that you get to
make is is the current version of you
that just lost that race because you did
that like that's the you that showed up
you lost that race are you to carry that
identity forward or are you gonna take
that because there's winners there's
losers and there's learners which one
are you gonna be yeah man like look I'm
I am so with you I totally agree that's
how I process life 1,000% when I see
stuff like that happen it sounds like
this guy's okay yeah yeah yeah great
yeah man so many people end up allowing
that loss to become the defining moment
of their life yeah that should have
scary I had Nastia Liukin on M night
theory and she was I think was a
qualifying round for the Olympics and
she does move and literally misses the
bar and just yes max flat and the thing
I found so interesting about her was
that that was what everybody was trying
to make her story yes but she didn't
like she didn't make it her story she
was able to learn from it and move on
I'm sure she was absolutely devastated
but she just sort of picked herself up
brush yourself off finished the routine
got back up on the bar some nut there's
no way to win now yeah yeah but she got
back up on the bars finished the routine
and so it was like there was something
about being consistent with who she
wanted to be even though she lost yeah
that was like a bigger narrative than
the falling there yeah well but again
this gets back to the problem that we
have again those those of us that will
operate at an elite level we just we
operate in a completely different set of
rules than what the rest of society
continuously perpetuates with the
narratives of winning and losing or lost
yeah so the the average folk out there
are gonna look at that and say she lost
but but that's not really how we process
things at the elite level because
there's practice there's there's process
there's there's next like none of these
things define you if you want to allow
all of the wins and losses to define you
then you're operating from an outcome
orientated perspective the best of the
best stay very much internal they're
very much process orientated you know
Jerry Rice great example like I was at a
training session with Jerry Rice when he
retired and there was young 22 23 year
olds that were about to do the Jerry
Rice famous practice none of them lasted
he was retired and in some cases 25
years older than the other kids and they
didn't last I've heard about his
workouts being just absolutely legend
there and in his just mindset was like
you know to everyone else you don't have
what it takes
you can't was he's somebody like Kobe
where it was like I need you to
understand him in out work yes that was
part of his big time I mean you know the
you know if there was a knock against
Jerry Jerry wasn't the team guy he's not
like a locker room guy he's not someone
that you can like laugh and joke around
and have fun with I mean Deion Sanders
talks about it quite a bit you know they
didn't really get along when he was at
the 49ers but you know if you're looking
at just pure excellence on the field of
play you know Jerry Jerry put in Jerry
put in the work but but I do I want to
get back to that that narrative that is
just pervasive and it's so frustrating
for me because I see so many people you
know they they consume media or they
listen to the prognosticators on
television when they're talking about
sport and just 90 percent of the time
that's not actually what any of the
athletes are ever thinking it's it's
like even what people get is getting to
the Olympics is the win you are in
you're not an Olympian you're or you're
always an Olympian when you meet someone
who is at the 1972 Olympics you refer to
them as an Olympian it's present-tense
always you will always be an Olympian
okay and so but in order to draw viewers
eyeballs in you've got to create stories
around you know Nastia Liukin z' process
of how she got there and the story of
where she came from or simone biles or
michael phelps or insert the name of
anyone and anything but the reality is
like we're there to create personal best
and if your personal best is good enough
to get you on the podium amazing but
truly the athlete who goes there with
the intention of just winning the medals
the their focus is on the wrong thing
and it sounds completely
counterproductive to what everyone keeps
on saying about how winners think you
know like you know the Vince Lombardi
quote of no it just left my left my mind
but it's his famous quote around you
know winning winning isn't everything
it's the only thing well it's taken out
of context there's actually a larger
quote that's there do you remember
because I would love to yeah it's it I'm
I'm failing with my dad about why you
think of it what's interesting to me is
I think it probably has more to do with
your perspective going into it so if
your perspective going in is I've got a
shot at the gold and you walk away in
fifth place something tells me that that
is gonna be utterly heartbreaking but if
you think you're gonna be in ninth place
and you end up in fifth place then it's
gonna be like oh my god the greatest
thing and for the rest of your life when
somebody calls you an Olympian it's like
yeah yeah yeah I did great so some of
this I think you know there are so many
stories of triumph and so many stories
of just devastating loss that I've tied
to the Olympics and if I had to guess
you could do a pretty powerful expose on
people who were ruined by the Olympics
just emotionally that they never recover
and obviously it comes down to the story
it comes down to the values that they
have around winning it comes down to the
messy reality of what were their parents
saying were they pushing them from an
early age did did they accidentally
allow themselves or forcefully in you
know when you've get-get some of these
young gymnasts where a parent is saying
you're only valuable if you're winning
mm-hmm and it becomes such an ingrained
part of who you are like you were
destined to win getting a gold is why
you exist why you've spent ten years
training this just ungodly pace giving
up your childhood and when it doesn't
pan out it's like man
at some point like that should is gonna
be really hard to get over and this is
the same thing happens in business where
people like a win is the only reason
you're doing it you're doing it so that
you can get the money mm-hmm and trust
me as somebody who spent almost a decade
doing that I fully understand but yeah
the money's not guaranteed the struggle
is and so if you aren't able to really
love the struggle to get into it to push
yourself yeah to have an identity that's
around something other than the victory
itself like one thing people should
check themselves against is does the the
thing that I love that can it be aimed
at something else or is it the thing
itself so for instance I was just at
Tony Gonzalez's house one of the
greatest football players of all time
just inducted into the Hall of Fame
[__] super interesting guy loved that
guy to death such a good dude yeah and
part of his struggle was that what he
was doing was aimed at the thing it was
aimed at being a football player and for
like three years after he finished
playing he slid into a depression
because he didn't know who he was
without football exactly if on the other
hand Mike because what he actually did
something very interesting when he was
in college I think he was far more
interested in basketball than he was
football but for whatever reason
something happened and is in his words
basketball was taken from me I don't
know what happened but he ends up
getting into football and he goes
through this process of realizing I can
fall in love with football I can
actually fall in love with this the way
that I fell in love with basketball I
can because he said I used to love the
smell the basketball the way I smelled
my hands like dribbling the ball
everywhere just like everything I was
obsessed with it yeah and I was like wow
that's so interesting that you could
make the transition from basketball to
football and you found a way to fall in
love with football because he said four
years in football he didn't love it yeah
and it wasn't until he thought wait a
second all the things that allowed me to
love basketball and fall in love with it
and be obsessed and all of that I could
translate that over into football yeah
and but when he got out he didn't do the
same thing with broadcasting and so for
the first few years that he was
broadcasting said I didn't love it and
it's only now that I'm realizing wait a
second this is like a pattern
and if I can find a way to love it sure
then you know I can really enjoy this
next phase of my life yeah but my
heartbreak for people is you've you're
never able to build a belief system a
value structure identity that's bigger
than the way it made you feel when you
thought you were gonna get the gold when
you thought you were gonna win when you
thought you were gonna be valedictorian
when you thought in my own case you
thought you were gonna be the next
Spielberg right like all these things
and then what do you do when that's not
how things play out like do you go in a
dark place
like do you become obsessed with who you
could have been are you given the on the
waterfront speech I could've been a
contender like is that where you go or
do you find a way to say okay hold on
I recognize this as a value system I can
no longer value those things like I
thought a lot about like what would
happen if I'm building impact theory and
it doesn't fail to get off the ground
worse it really starts to go somewhere
and then it implodes mmm like what is my
life look like then yeah how do I
respond to that now the good news for me
is that I don't allow even though I
trust me it's like a black holes worth
of center of gravity like it is so
tempting it's so easy to just slip into
that notion to be I am what I've
accomplished yeah yeah but when you have
a narrative that you're telling yourself
that is something different that keeps
you from being sucked into that black
hole that you're reminding yourself of
constantly yeah which for me it's I'm
the learner I'm the learner I'm the
learner and as long as I love what I'm
doing that I'm gonna keep doing in the
second that I don't all happily change
direction that's a core part of who I am
and what I tell myself what I tell the
people around me and so I'm reinforcing
it as I articulate it out loud like
doing all of that gives you some
protection from that but I get like
there is something about the human
condition that makes that neurologically
very difficult to fail publicly to fail
at something that you've been moving
towards your whole life that you gave
yourself over to you allowed yourself to
say
I'm gonna win a gold medal yeah and then
poof it's gone
yeah well to your conversation around
Tony I mean that's I mean that's no
there was a became later in my career
but that's that was like a bread and
butter was like helping athletes
transition out of you know what that
next phase was gonna be because for the
longest time we described as a football
player or you know in the book in three
and a chapter three I talked about the
the tennis player who won the collegiate
championship but just fundamentally
burned out of tennis because when he was
losing he felt like he was failing as a
human being because everything all of
his identity was wrapped up in being a
tennis player and that's why I'm the
message is so important for me because I
want people to have a a way healthier
mental health for themselves is seeing
that know your many identities and when
you when you realize that you're there's
many roles that you're playing in life
you we can start to separate these
things so that when you've got one role
that might not be going well for you
right now
entrepreneurship you're not failing as a
human being and you know you're
struggling right now in it but that
doesn't mean you need to go and fail at
being a father fail at being a husband
and all these things super interesting
do you know Robert Sapolsky no professor
at Stanford this guy's [__]
interesting go watch every YouTube video
has ever done this guy's so incredible
so he researched baboons for like 20
years or something
he said the baboons are they will kill
you to your core with how much human
behavior you will recognize in them yeah
and the baboon troop that he followed
they were a very successful troop they
only had to work about three hours a day
to get their food so they had something
like eight hours worth of daylight and
where they could just as he said be
really shitty to each other yeah and he
said they would just like develop these
crazy hierarchies and where you fell in
the hierarchy if it wasn't a stable
hierarchy meaning from one day to the
next you didn't know who you were above
who you were below and there was like
constant fighting over he said their
stress levels were absolutely insane and
you know I can't remember if he said
they actually died of stress-related
disease but he said they would dart them
and then check their levels and he said
it was
they're just like their immune systems
were really suppressed because they had
so much stress and anxiety over where
where they fell in the hierarchy they
said you see the exact same thing in
humans with one fascinating exception
humans have multiple hierarchies so if
you hate your [__] job you're and
you're low man on the totem pole at work
but you're the Deacon of your church he
said those people are gonna tell you all
day long how the you know working from
9:00 to 5:00 is total [__] you're
just being taken advantage of it's
garbage but if you were the Deacon of
the church then it was like ah you had
all these amazing things to say about
being a deacon at the church that's a
[__] I never thought of that before the
way that we are always looking to say
okay much like we have different
identities we belong to different
different competence hierarchies yeah
and based on what one feels good we're
going to put all of our time and energy
into that basket when you think about
like nerds now take on a different
context but when we were growing up if
the 80s being a nerd was not cool but
within its own ecosystem that was so
like I was a band nerd but within band
like then there's a whole different
pecking order and so the rest of the
world made me that you're you know super
lame but in the band it's like hey I'm
doing alright yeah it's really
interesting and there's something about
actually having the awareness of hey if
things aren't going well in one or
multiple areas finding an area where you
can shine yeah and going engaging in
that could have an immeasurably powerful
impact on your overall well-being yeah
and one thing that Sapolsky said is the
key thing to understand is that you
would think if I described to you the
effects of being low in a hierarchy that
you would want to be a high ranking high
ranking baboon within the group but he
said that actually isn't the thing that
has the most well-being what has the
most well-being is somebody that's in a
stable hierarchy regardless of where
they are and they have the most social
relationships and when you're in a
stable hierarchy even if you're low but
you have a lot of social contacts then
that actually has a greater impact on
your
well being than just being high-ranking
mm-hm and I thought that was really
interesting
I'm glad you brought this up too because
you brought up the social relationships
I think's and we need and when you look
at any of the the long-term studies that
have been done on the quality of lives
of people that when they get to the end
of their lives and and they and they've
had whether it's a lot of success or
they grade themselves as having a
successful life or what have you there's
really only one out of all the different
stories there's only really one
consistent theme amongst the people that
have had both a successful life had a
high quality of life and you know are
living what would be considered a joyful
experience and that is the quality of
their relationships yeah right and and
so I want to bring that up because we're
talking we're talking so much about
someone making change happen and
shifting and doing the work or whatever
but I think the great mistake I did this
early on and I am a huge byproduct of
mentorship apprenticeship it's one thing
that's massively lost nowadays is
everyone's trying to race to the finish
line of success so that they can have
some sort of status and label on
themselves as opposed to just going in
and tucking yourself underneath the wing
of someone who's doing the work that you
want to go and do like there's a reason
why the Renaissance is still graded as
the greatest history in art history and
it was built off of apprenticeship you
know with Michelangelo and Leonardo and
da Vinci like all of these amazing names
were within 10 years of each other do
you know that those two hated each other
no I didn't yeah oh it's [__]
fascinating the dock or documentary the
biography that Walter Isaacson wrote
about yeah Leonardo da Vinci he goes
into that and how everybody [__]
hated Michelangelo and I guess he had a
deformed nose because he was such a dick
that someone just walked up and [__]
smash it in the face that's me and yeah
his nose then healed funny weird yeah
and that was it he was like a total
loner and nobody wanted to be around
about [__] what a genius yeah but you're
yeah dude I was gonna not I thought my
head was gonna fall off I was nodding so
hard I so agree
my whole thing with I love social media
I think it's actually super powerful it
is very dangerous and it's a bit like a
gun yeah if you use it inappropriately
you're gonna [__] kill yourself yeah
but if you know how to use it it can be
an incredible tool and one of the things
that makes me very sad about social
media despite it being so incredibly
powerful is people want to be heard
instead of getting good and I'll get
people like I mean people every now and
then and shout out to my boy at Avril
here in Beverly Hills who I met and he
was like dude I love the show I watched
it all the time and I had this when I
meet people like that out in the wild
who are into the show I'm like [__] okay
I have like 30 seconds with this person
I want to change their life right going
back to what you said I want the six
[__] words that are like gonna change
this person forever yeah and I'm like
all right it all starts with your goals
what are your goals and he was like I
want to make videos that inspire people
and that's like god damn it I'm like
here's how you end up making videos that
inspire people you go get good at
something because here's the truth if
you're just trying to pare it back all
the things you've heard from people that
have gone and got extraordinary
something you're it just won't it it
won't have the richness because here's
lacking the nuance it has that depth you
you have learned things that I have not
learned in your experience you fought
and struggled and all that and sort of
on paper you could probably describe us
as you know they essentially went to the
same thing right trying to achieve
greatness in a field coming out of
nowhere blah blah and it's like in going
through that process things occurred to
you that didn't occur to me and vice
versa
yeah and so that's what makes it
interesting I'm like until you've gone
out into the wilderness and done your
thing there's like nothing to bring back
to the tribe yeah so it's like don't the
videos are gonna take care of themselves
either you're gonna get extraordinary at
something and really learn some [__] and
then people are really gonna want to
listen to you
yeah or you're not like there are people
out there that aren't necessarily super
charismatic or dynamic but god damn it
they've learned some mm-hmm and I want
to listen to those [__] all day
because it's like whoa you've got some
insights into things I've never
of man yeah and what you've done in fact
this is it when somebody writes a book
or creates a video what they're trying
to do is distill down everything they've
learned over the last 20 30 years yeah
and make it digestible for you if they
haven't done anything for the last 20 or
30 years they have nothing to digest or
give you to digest it's like which is a
lot of books though there's a lot of
books that's my problem with the
leadership personal self up spaces you
know there's a recipe how do you gain
Authority gain influence you write a
book and so someone who's a year and a
half two years in because now it's a
hell of a lot easier to write books with
the amount of like writing services that
are out there and ghost writers and this
and that and so you've got people who
read like the three contemporary or you
know or past bestsellers on the topic
and then they're gonna go and iterate on
it and and give their viewpoint and it's
just and people start propagating and
permeating these same ideas and when you
actually look at a lot that's why I've
got such an issue with the industry is
because there are very few books that
have become mainstream that are written
by practitioners the ones that have done
the work and I'm not even talking
researchers because standing on the
sidelines and seeing how a football
player is approaching their career or
approaching and you take down your notes
and maybe do a couple of interviews is
way different then the person who's been
working with thousands of them one on
one and seeing well what they say in the
press conference and what they actually
do behind the scenes are two very
different things the alter ego stuff
this is the thing that people actually
do to help go and achieve amazing things
it's never been articulated because it's
a private experience that people don't
go and talk about Beyonce was rare in
that she let it out and told people when
people don't understand is she was
crucified on blogs and many other things
by whether it's evangelical right or
even the the african-american community
about being inauthentic and yeah why
would she even need to go and do that
couldn't she just be herself listen I
get it beautiful idea be yourself gang
how's that [__] working for you it's
not
like enough with all these shitty
platitudes that don't mean anything like
inauthentic inauthenticity what a shitty
term like I'm sick and tired of
authenticity authentic self a there's no
such thing as the authentic self because
there is no self there is no you right
leg was with you right till then no
there's no I don't think there is
something about there's a I'll call it
the integrated self right where there's
definitely like even my robot thing okay
my robot thing well it's not quite an
alter-ego it's but it's a totem and it
reminds me of something it's it's very
real and very true to myself even though
I built in the meaning to that so like
when you were giving me the Lynda Carter
thing
I thought you know it's actually really
interesting as people people are
revealing themselves in the thing that
they choose yes so there is still to me
authenticity I guess is like a trigger
for me because I really I feel very
grossed out when other people I can tell
you're you're pandering you're
presenting something that isn't real
yeah and so I think that being who you
are is is the only way to build a strong
sense of self kid that didn't work let
me explain it another way it the second
I start trying to act like I know
something that I don't I get anxious
yeah and so anxiety has become this
amazing invisible fence that keeps me
authentic and when I was younger I was
prone to like trying to you know flex my
muscles and like I be a little bit
bigger than I really was and it made me
feel gross and I was like yeah I'm not
doing this anymore and so once I stopped
doing that and I was like this is where
I'm actually at this is what I actually
understand this what I don't understand
I try to call out like when I start like
cuz there are things ideas I'm excited
about but don't really understand yet
yeah and so I'll try to flag them it's
like [__] this is so interesting to me
but I'm now at the edge of what I
understand and I'm just sort of yeah
talking but being true to who you are
like even this show so I'd real
hesitation about doing the show but the
thing about doing this show in
particular was on impact Theory if I
disagree with you then I'm just going to
be quiet I'm
let you say your piece and maybe it
resonates with somebody else and that's
that but on this I was like if I don't
agree I'm gonna tell somebody I don't
know yet because I wanted I want I want
to evolve my own thinking in real time
and I can if I'm just silent I have to
push you and then you push me back yeah
like we see where we settle out so I
think that there I have a deep desire to
be true to myself
I love the word authentic I don't have
the same reaction that you do yeah I
think there is an authentic self that is
a real thing but I also completely buy
into all trees yes so like when I say
when I'm talking about that it's like
it's again understanding that we've got
many identities that we have so you know
if I am perceived by other people as
being a challenge of personality which
is very easy I mean of course I'm
working with you know ambitious people
or achievers and you know they're coming
to me to get a specific skill set or a
paradigm shift or something and I need
to like sometimes you gotta take the
battering-ram approach with and you're
gonna crack through it and you got to be
tough enough plus I can love to watch
that plus I've got really big
personalities coming my way like you
know I'm working with the people that
you're seeing on ESPN or Sky Sports on
the highlight reels like you know those
are big personalities and they have
nothing but yes people around them well
I'm not a yes person and so in
especially sometimes working people who
are just physically far larger than me
as well and but it's not weird how
that's the thing
yeah yeah it's a hundred percent of
thing oh yeah yeah ten percent you know
but when I go home to my three little
kids I got three beautiful little
children six and a half five and a half
right now or five and two and a half
Molly Sophie and Charlie do they want
the challenge you're walking through the
door that is me that's the me that's in
my work environment but I never wear my
glasses around my kids and when I walk
through the door I have this little
bracelet about those I've got this
little bracelet hanging on the hook at
the front door
and when we talked about we were talking
earlier so much about meaning and how we
as human beings we could to add a
narrative and story to anything we can
add meaning to anything that's why when
we meet someone who like they've lost a
coffee mug and they're just distraught
it's cuz it meant something to them
maybe someone gave it to them and it was
in a moment where he was emotionally
charged and you know is
ever it is but when I before I walked
through that door I make a very
conscious intention that there is a
different Tod different self that's
walking through that door and when I
open up the door I've got a hook with
this with this bracelet hanging on it
which Molly made for me and it's got
their three initials my only Sophie and
Charlie it's got only love and it's got
my wife's name on it the original one
which got lost just had my kids initials
but when I put that on I am now inspired
by the identity of mr. Rogers he's the
person that I most want to embody for my
kids that's interesting because if there
is someone that embodies the
characteristics and traits that I want
my children to experience with me which
is playfulness fun patience and a lot of
clothes changing and a lot of clothes
changing wonderful sweaters yes that's
who I most want to activate the traits
of right and so here's what I know is
that's not me being fake that's not me
pretending anything because what I know
after 22 years of experience doing this
all of those qualities and traits
already exist inside of me patience
lives inside inside of me it's just not
flexed every single day when I'm in my
entrepreneurial role playfulness or fun
or goofiness doesn't necessarily have a
place in my business the way that it is
other businesses yeah playfulness could
be a big part of it but when I go
through the door I want to be that
playful fun self and so when I put that
on you know there is a state change and
that's me being very intentional I'm
creating a ritual so that I can be an
absolute superstar I want to be
excellent in that area I don't want to
be average now because when I'm when I
go away Molly always hands it to me so
that I'm that they're with me when I'm
right yeah but normally I wouldn't have
it on kind of it but yeah because I'm in
LA I'm not in New York City right we're
in it right now
I also knew that I'd be talking about it
so my point about that cuz we talked
about the authentic self what I want to
extrapolate out for people is you've got
many selves that you can be authentic
with because the current kind of
definition of authenticity or authentic
is that there's one you and there isn't
one you right and so that you were
talking about being the most true
to yourself as you can that's and I
agree with that
the most true the self that I that I can
be is that I want to be as amazing for
my kids and give them the same amount of
energy that I've just given nine hours
in my day at work because how many
people that are watching this right now
spend and give a whole bunch of other
people in their day that they don't
really even care about a bunch of energy
and then they go home energy depleted
and just sort of Slough through the rest
of the evening despite the fact that the
people that they love and care about the
most that they would be most distraught
over if they lost them they're not
showing up for energy isn't this you
know tank that gets depleted in your day
you know if you want to believe that
then 100% it is that's the paradigm that
you're living through that's your
gravitational pull then understand it is
mine it's not I've got I've got just an
absolute abundance of energy that I get
to walk through in the threshold of our
apartment back in New York City that
when I do I look forward to it I can't
wait to walk through that and put on
that so I can be phenomenal for my kids
now and phenomenal for my wife
that's my existence you know and it can
be for anybody else and if you imagine
mr. Rogers for your kids who do you
imagine for your wife well that's but
I'll give you another example here
because yeah so I've done a lot of media
around the book fortunate 132 podcast
now yeah 914 is you know done like NBC
and CBS PBS did a spot on it and like
you know back in the motherland of
Canada
you know everyone jumped on board to
support the the Canadian Sun kind of
thing which was great but on a lot of
those interviews like I kind of have a
uniform is like a blazer and a pocket
square and all that and the glasses and
my wife she was always giving birth time
she's like you know the person that I
fell in love with is this like super
funny like you're a big jokester like
you love giving people a hard time
you're like always laughing but that
doesn't necessarily come out as much
with you when you're doing your
interviews so I was on The Today Show
just last month with it was gonna be
with Hoda copy and Jenna Bush but Hoda
took some leave and so then it was Holly
Robinson Peete and Jennifer Nettles the
lead singer for Sugar Land and you know
it's a you know it's kind of that it's
that daytime talk type of thing and they
like the more playful thing so when I
was going on there I was like you know
what
who would I most want to show up as so I
can have that more playful fun
personality that's there because it's
there I've got it and it was Ryan Ryan
Reynolds and Hugh Jackman I love them in
their interviews like they're funny
they're jokey and so that's what I
showed up as this time I didn't wear the
uniform of a blazer I actually wore
something very similar to this mhm and
yeah you look at that interview versus
the other ones just a different part of
me was showing up in it and you know as
soon as it got done it went amazing and
immediately the producers like we gotta
get you back we want to talk about like
more this more and stuff so that's my
point about like this whole there's a
lot of people are getting trapped by
this idea of authenticity authentic self
and I think people need to be really
careful be a lot more choosy about what
they allow these definitions to be
because I love the idea I I don't think
that people are intentionally trying to
deceive people around these words by any
stretch the imagination sure but I think
that they're being co-opted by a really
bad idea that is trapping many people
because the reality is when you're just
starting out like you you have this
taste and this flavor of something
that's better than what you are right
now and so there's this internal
resistance and this struggle around that
and and then people don't take the
action and so my advice to that is like
[__] that don't I'm not so concerned
about you being authentic because you
thinking about calling your mom and
telling her that you love her but then
not doing it that makes you feel good
picking up the phone and calling your
mom and for some people saying the tough
words of I love you if you're not in a
in a family that says that
often it creates two totally different
possibilities right like that that's
whatever it takes for you to pick up the
phone and say those words I like that
person whatever it takes for someone to
actually launch the video or you know
launch the business whatever it took for
you on the inside whether you were being
fake and pretending to be someone else
or not I don't care because you toppled
the Domino everyone's so concerned about
the perceptions of other people I just
don't care and I'm coming out from the
experience of people who've done it like
you know what the greatest soccer player
will be in the rankings of one of the
top three soccer players of all time
thinks when he's on the soccer field
this is not in press conferences what
player are we talking about I can't say
because I don't let people know who my
clients are but he fundamentally
believes that no one deserves to be on
the pitch with him he's personally
offended that people are sharing the
blades of grass with him
and so at fie he feels like it's his
personal responsibility to destroy you
and embarrass and humiliate you out
there because of you don't put in the
amount of work that I do you do not put
in the amount of work that I do to
become this great and it offends me that
you're even on my team sometimes and so
now I've got to show you up and show you
just how much it's gonna take for you to
even sniff my cleats Wow now some people
think well that's an egotistical jerk
it's egotistical jerk if he was saying
that in a press conference that's what
he's not saying it but think about that
from a healthy internal super-ego
standpoint if that helps you be the
greatest player or competitor in your
genre then what does it matter you know
it's actually super interesting and I
don't know where I come down on that so
my thing is here's my thing I'm a
servant to greatness mm-hmm that's what
I've chosen to value so if they're going
to leverage the darkness that hard you
get good I will say hey it might work be
a little bit careful watch Michael
Jordan's Hall of Fame speech and you'll
see the toll that only relying on anger
in the darkness you know that it does
extract a toll yeah but it is it is an
extraordinary tool for some people to
leverage and I think the light in the
dark both have massive utility yeah I
just think people have to be really
careful about if you're always in that
dark energy sure then now if he were
having to choose between its to be the
greatest I must be in the dark energy
all the time then yeah I would have no
beef with it I just think it's probably
a false dichotomy he probably doesn't
have to only rely on the dark and the
hate and the you're not good enough and
so I worry like as a social animal that
he'd probably have more fun if he found
a way to elevate and inspire those
around him and still outwork them like
here here's the truth and some people
god I'm about to turn some people off
I'm gonna miss you when you unsubscribe
here's the truth of me I outwork
everyone on this team and I know the
people right now are listening to this
so my team is healing me say right now
yeah but this is not this is not a bad
thing it's not a dark energy thing it's
like I want my team to know they can
count on me yeah to outwork them they
can count on me to carry a load that's
heavier than anyone else yeah that I
want that that I want to be out front I
want the first slings and arrows to hit
me yeah I want them to be able to file
him behind me now at the same time I
[__] love it when somebody wants to
make me sweat mmm yeah I'm gonna play it
your love yeah I'm gonna step out then
it's like I'm gonna bury you yeah with
love yeah love in my heart yet but I'm
[__] coming for you will ya will Vuh
your name is on my lips right now and I
could hear the team laughing so that
[__] is gunning for my position
in no uncertain terms he said his goal
in five years is to be co-ceo which
secretly means in five years he wants to
be CEO he's just trying to be kind yeah
so I'm gonna bury will but I'm gonna do
it in a way that uplifts him lets him
know that I [__] want to sweat and
God if he can overtake me I will be very
impressed yeah so it's
like it you can get the same result
without sliding so permanently and yes
so when I'm describing what's going on
in his head
I'm obviously saying it I'm saying it in
a very intense way but there is an
attitude of playfulness behind what he's
also saying as well so he's playing with
dark and light and I mean I as someone
who's now you know worked worked with
him for a very long time I've seen this
huge evolution in his in his change but
what I just like what you just did
though was see that what you just did
that's what I would call as being
authentic because I think what's really
important for people that watch whether
it's consuming little tidbits of you
know snackable is on social media is
that they get the real and true story of
what it's like and what it like that
that's your mindset that I'm going to
bury you with love right
like oh yeah and that's for me it's like
no I you know coming into our orbit as
clients but I'll win because we have
this thing as we out care we all care
everybody else you can't out care me
because I care more and mine comes from
a very challenging place from a kid you
know like I have this the reason I can
get challenged or not get challenged but
the reason I can get frustrated with
some of the you know platitudes that are
out there that are just not true is
because I care a lot that people get the
truth like the real truth like our our
company is based on you know scientific
research right that's why in the book
yeah everyone gets the concept
immediately but what I want to get
people to understand is know there's a
lot of science behind why all these
things work in the methodology that we
put into using you know and shaping
other people's identities and stuff but
I have a straw R Denari level of
compassion and and that comes from you
know I grew up on a farm and ranch
amazing parents two older brothers that
are great and my younger sister went off
to a church camp when I was 12 years old
because I just I was an
I just needed you around people as much
as I can so if there was a Catholic camp
this weekend as a Catholic if there was
a Protestant when the next weekend I was
a Protestant if there was a you know a
Baptist one I was a Baptist didn't
matter I just want to be around people
and went away to a camp and over the
course two men singled me out over the
course of a couple of days you know
sexually abused and raped me in a pretty
bad way right when we were 12 years old
that's a that's not that's not an easy
thing to deal with immediately when I
got home from that you know you're
dealing with so much shame so much
humiliation so much you know guilt
embarrassment didn't want anyone to find
out about it Plus on top of all of the
you know you know story and kind of you
know stuff that they put inside my head
dropped off my duffle bag at the front
door and we just put in a pool in our
backyard
went to the garage changed into a
swimming my swimming trunks and
proceeded to try to drown myself whoa so
struggled with you know didn't obviously
happen but struggled with like suicide
throughout my teens in my 20s because I
was trying to get away from that and
that's why I know I am world class at
mental game coaching because you know I
know that some of the things that drive
people to do the things that they do
come from dark places you know but there
is another side to that that like that
gift that I got from that experience was
that I've got extraordinary level of
compassion for the challenges that some
people have gone through which can be
tough but what I want people to know is
that that doesn't mean need to be your
story forever that doesn't need to
define you by any stretch of the
imagination how did you build back from
that I don't know like I went I did a a
went internal with a lot of stuff
definitely changed my personality kind
of in a flash I was always a I was
always a kind of a serious kid in that I
just loved ruminating on ideas as a
youngster but I was far more kind of
like playful definitely turned me
probably into a little bit more of a
Cheever because I wanted to get away
from my province really there just kind
of everywhere I went I just saw
reminders of things for me that's
probably explains why I've done so much
travel and lived in so many
is not the only thing that explains it
but consumed as much information as I
could which was tough because I'm a huge
dyslexic and so reading was always a
challenge for me until I got diagnosed
at 21 I went through all through school
without getting diagnosed with dyslexia
I just thought I was you know you know I
kept it I was very good at hiding it but
you know that didn't I never thought of
myself as stupid or something like that
but I always felt like you know there's
something about books that I'm drawn
towards but man do these things ever
challenge me it's like the the hero's
journey process of like entering the
cave I kept on going back to the cave to
try to enter it and read but you know I
got into reading about the mind so that
I could try and master it because it was
a dark place for me all the time to go
to you know like battled with I mean I
still do sometimes battle with night
terrors not as not anywhere near as much
anymore but night terrors was something
I battled for a really really really
long time so sleeping was tough I kind
of dreaded the idea of going to sleep
and you know what I mean sleep is like
the number one thing I mean the first
thing I work with people on for
performance whether it's a executive an
entrepreneur leader anyone is like
anyone that's here you know getting your
sleep and you're protecting that time is
so important and here I was maybe
sleeping four hours a night it sounds
like this may not be a need anymore but
have you looked at the studies on MDMA
and I was in the largest MDMA stuff oh
[__] the one at Bellevue Hospital in New
York City
did it help yes so yeah it's uh and you
know tucker tucker's a really close
friend is yes and so yeah
MDMA what MDMA did for me was it it
created an anchor place where I could
see that that amazing level of self-love
which is something that you struggle
with when you know you attach yourself
to these stories that you know because
self-worth becomes a real big issue for
people who've gone through things like
this especially when you know the
abusers are telling you that you're not
worth it and that
how can your family love you when
they're not here to you no no one's here
you know so how much can anyone really
love you you know and they're just
beating down and they did a very good
systematic process of it over the course
of those days and but when when I had
MDMA for the first time that anchor
place that it gave me because it just it
was like floating in a place of just
just pure it was like dropping into like
an ocean of like just pure self-love or
bliss like it's really hard to describe
to people I was like when I came out of
it I was like okay like I know that that
that's a place that I can get to which
then really started the kind of journey
towards really kind of facing it finally
because I never told anyone about this
until just two years ago where I finally
kind of was frayed at the edges because
if it bunch of other circumstances that
were happening around me a business
lawsuit and and stuff where I was suing
someone and and you know we had a tough
child and you know my wife had a really
tough go and so I was sort of holding as
much things up as I possibly could it's
the idea of like you know trying to keep
all these different beach balls below
the surface of the water you know
there's only so much you can do
and finally this thing came to the
surface because I hadn't necessarily
dealt with it and you know but
steamrolled towards it and and worked
through it but that that that study I'm
not gonna say that it's because it's not
a magic bullet for everybody but you'd
say that it did help start 100% and I
mean just because right now the
statistics on that I was in the third
trial phase the which was the final
trial phase of it and the third trial
phase they kind of reserved for like the
worst case scenario people people who
have been living with trauma and PTSD
for an exorbitant amount of time but I
think the the lightest stat don't quote
me exactly on it but it's I think it's
an 86 percent cure rate on the
recurrence of PTSD
which if you know anything about other
possible treatments for PTSD and trauma
is an insane number so I can't wait for
it to be you know
legalized for people because it's been
really hard for Congress to say no to a
group of people that are former veterans
of the United States you know military
and say no to it's because it's been
phenomena so the work that the maps
Institute has done a champion s and
other people behind the scenes
underground for a long time giving
people semblances of hope that you know
there is a pathway to the other side has
been amazing so you know that's all me
kind of coming back around to like you
know that incident you know in some ways
it really shaped kind of the direction
that I took with getting into the mental
game stuff I needed it for myself say
like man I can imagine like talk about
pieces clicking into place so having
gone through abuse like that yeah and
needing a version of yourself that's
like the best of everything that maybe
is somehow outside of that and hasn't
been touched by that 1% walkman yeah
makes sense yeah
and but in the end like now that I know
so much more about it what I was tapping
into to kind of avoid or not yeah in
some ways it was avoiding but no you
know getting away from that identity
that was wounded was tapping into that
playful side you know that you know when
I went on the football field or whatever
which was a safe haven in some ways and
sport was big time for me allowed me to
truly connect to this amazing superpower
that we have that's why I'm so
passionate about getting people
introduced to this phenomenon that
everyone that's watching has already
used you've used it because we use it
when we're in our formative years
between the age of 1 and 7 when we're
always you know you're pretending to be
Batman jumping off the sofa or you're
pretending to be your favorite you know
athlete on the front driveway to see and
it's all answering the question what
could I do if what could I do if I you
know was LeBron James in this moment
what could I do if I was Wayne Gretzky
what could I do if I was Batman or
Superman
and you play with that idea and and and
when you take a look at that that
section of your other child's or of a
person's life
that's where almost all of our
development happens 1 2 7 and then when
you look at it from a brain wave
perspective children that are operating
between the ages of one and seven are
living
in the ages of one to seven or operating
in the theta brainwave state
consistently they haven't developed into
the beta which is when frontal lobe
starts to kick in right the development
of the brain and you know now our higher
reasoning and thinking and judgment
skill starts to kick in and so that
should be telling people that there's a
there's something about that that era of
our lives that we can reconnect to and
how we can reconnect to it is our
creative imagination creative
imagination operates inside the theta
brain wave state where we can suspend so
many things and see ourselves in a
different way and an alter ego is that
was that kind of magical key to help
unlock all of these possibilities that
exist inside of you know clients and
other people now it's [__] an
interesting dude interesting concept the
book is out now where can people get it
everywhere Airport bookstores Amazon and
regulation yeah yeah Amazon Barnes and
Noble
you know find it you know it's all
around the globe you know and we're
getting it you know sold the rights into
a whole bunch of different language is
already with it so amazing yeah and you
know if people want to connect with me
they you know Todd Herman dot me is my
home base on the interwebs and you know
all my activity on Instagram or social
as well to you know where I share some
behind-the-scenes of things that we're
doing so I love it yeah Todd thank you
for joining us on the show this was
amazing
we we may have set a record here so
thank you thank you for the time an
awesome absolutely thanks alright peace
out everybody until next time be
legendary
later we only get one emotion at a time
the tower brain works one emotion so our
job is to really find the right state
that we want to be in the right
emotional place and use that rather than
let the brain win and if that is
untrained and unconditioned it will win